The Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) has condemned the killing of over 40 rice farmers in Garin Kwashebe, Jere Local Government Area of Borno State on Saturday, by suspected Boko Haram terrorists. The forum, in a statement by its Chairman and the Governor of Ekiti State, Mr Kayode Fayemi, in a statement on Sunday in Abuja, described the attack as morally reprehensible. He said that the attack brought back ugly memories of several dastardly attacks on soft targets in the state. Fayemi noted that the farmers were attacked while harvesting their produce totally oblivious of the danger that awaits them in nearby bushes. He said that the method was consistent with the senseless bombings of busy markets, bus stations, schools and abattoirs whenever the terrorists felt overpowered by the security operatives. “This sad narrative raises serious questions on the general security situation in the country and around the capability of the nation’s security architecture. “It also raises questions on whether or not there are adequate arrangements to protect lives and property. “Since insurgency engulfed the country more than a decade ago, each time it seems like the situation is coming under control, the enemy strikes again. This has happened consistently.” Fayemi said that the governors were concerned that the carnage was degenerating beyond explicable limits. He said that the catalogue of destruction had an adverse effect on everything in the state and the country at large.” Fayemi said that the NGF would collectively review those issues at its next meeting to forge the way forward. (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria Governors of the 36 states in the country, on the platform of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), have described the killing of over 40 rice farmers in Garin Kwashebe, Jere Local Government Area of Borno State, on Saturday, November 28, by Boko Haram terrorists as obnoxious, wicked, unwarranted and morally… November 30, 2020 In "News" By Henry Umoru GOVERNORS of the thirty six states of the country under the aegis of the Nigeria Governors Forum, NGF have described the killing of over forty (43) rice farmers in Garin Kwashebe in Jere Local Government Area of Borno State on Saturday, November 28, 2020, by suspected Boko… November 30, 2020 In "News" …As Governors Donate N100m to the people and government of Borno State By Henry Umoru FOLLOWING attack on him by Boko Haram terrorists who ambushed his convoy on Sunday evening, making it the second time within 48 hours, Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno state has promised to henceforth be very… September 30, 2020 In "News"