Nigerian music artiste, Oluwatosin Ajibade popularly known as Mr Eazi, has announced a partnership with the organizers of Nigeria’s top software engineering training programme, Decagon to help brilliant young Nigerians actualize their dream of becoming software engineers. According to the partners, Mr Eazi will serve as a sponsor for five residents or indigenes of Ogun State to attend Decagon. Decagon recently opened applications for its six months training programme   which includes accommodation, feeding, laptop, internet and a monthly stipend, followed by an immediate job placement into companies like Access Bank, Sterling Bank and Etranzact after graduating. It advised interested candidates   to visit it’s website and apply before November 22, the deadline as    the programme does not require any payment of fees until the trainees have graduated and started working and earning salaries. It explained that successful applicants are required to have a credible guarantor in order to access the Pay-Later model and this has proven difficult for some otherwise successful applicants in the past. It is due to this challenge that   Mr Eazi has decided to step in and guarantee 5 lucky ones from Ogun State, by residence or origin . CEO of Decagon, Chika Nwobi, said: “For some who do not have access to someone in their family or network to stand in for them, Mr. Eazi is providing a lifeline   and this is the type of collaboration that will move Nigeria forward.” Also commenting, Mr Eazi said:   “I have always been passionate about helping young people and pushing them to be the best version of themselves. For some of them, their talents naturally align with software engineering. I am happy to support this initiative in the hopes that they can support themselves and their families.” Vanguard News Nigeria Technology investor and founder of Decagon Institute, Chika Nwobi has concluded plans to place Nigeria on a global map as a source of outstanding engineering talent through the training of 30,000 Nigerians as software engineers. August 3, 2019 In "News" By Prince Osuagwu Nigerian-based software engineering firm, Decagon Institute has developed a mobile application for easy communication of COVID-19 information. Already, Kaduna state is said to be leveraging on the application to disseminate its COVID-19 messages effectively to its 3.9 million citizens. The Decagon app serves as a communication dissemination… June 10, 2020 In "Technology" A Non-Governmental Organisation, Hacey Health Initiative, on Thursday said it would train 57 Nigerian girls in software engineering and Information Communication Technology (ICT) entrepreneurship. March 18, 2016 In "News"