Popular OAP and leader of Free the Sheeple movement, Ifedayo Olarinde, popularly known as Daddy Freeze wants Nigerians to put in the work rather than sit and wait for ‘unmerited favor’. He believes Nigeria’s poverty and leadership crises are based on what he refers to as the ‘buffoonery of unmerited favor. He advised that what Nigerians should pray for is that those who are deserving should be in places of authority. Daddy Freeze who has not hidden his disgust at the proliferation of churches in the country and the idolizing of pastors shared a post with the words: “Nigeria’s poverty and leadership crises are entirely based on based on buffoonery of unmerited favor. “Stop praying for unmerited favor or for the blessings of other people to be given to you. Instead pray that those who are deserving should be in places of authority. “If we adopt this mindset we won’t need to pray about bad governance in the future. “The only unmerited favor we Christians get, is that Christ died for undeserving people like us so we could attain salvation. “Everything else we MUST work for and EARN!.   A post shared by FRZ (@daddyfreeze) Daddy Freeze has often come under heavy verbal attacks from clerics and their followers for his opinions and bible teachings. Vanguard News Nigeria   Former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omokri has revealed how himself and Senior Pastor and General Overseer, Omega Fire Ministries International, Apostle Johnson Suleman influenced broadcaster, Ifedayo Olarinde, popularly known as Daddy Freeze, from attacking pastors. Pastor Omokri made the statement to correct an unfortunate development which saw… September 12, 2020 In "News" Hip hop singer, Obinna Kelvin Anyanwu, better known as Waconzy in the music industry, has taken a snipe at On-Air-Personality, Ifedayo Olarinde, a.k.a Daddy Freeze, calling him demon, who is out to destroy the body of Christ, which is the church. March 31, 2019 In "Entertainment" Nothing in recent memory seems to have affected the bank-balances of Nigerian pastors as Daddy Freeze’s exposure of the deception of tithing in the churches. Nigerian tithe-collecting pastors are up in arms, throwing every possible missile at him, including death threats. Jesus says: “Whoever desires to save his life will… December 10, 2017 In "Article of Faith"