Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has warned that his administration would not tolerate acts capable of derailing its vision, just as he hinted that measures to determine each government agency’s contributions to the vision, would be put in place. Abiodun who gave the warning at the inauguration of Chairmen and members of Boards of Parastatals at the June 12 Cultural Centre, Kuto, Abeokuta, said that for the State to feel their impact, they must be agents of positive change in their various Ministries, Departments and Agencies. “Let me warn that we will not tolerate any act that is not in tandem with the overall vision of our administration. But instead, you must make selfless service key to translating our collective dreams to reality. You must live above board”. “You must be agents of positive change as well as contributing significant values in your respective MDAs. Indeed, we are going to put in place, some performance metrics to measure the performances of each of our agencies and determine in what specific ways they are contributing”, he emphasised. Abiodun noted that government has developed infrastructure to provide solid foundation for sustainable development, evolve a multi-dimensional approach to develop the educational, health and agricultural sectors, as well as leverage on Information and Communication Technology (ICT) to empower the youth”. The inauguration, he said, was not only in fulfilment of a promise made when the first batch of board members were inaugurated but also a commitment to an inclusive policy laid down for the continued economic development of the State, saying their selection reflects competence, professionalism, fairness, equity and inclusiveness which define the administration. “I have no doubt, that, each of these MDAs will be able to identify one or two pillars that their mandates fall on. However, I must also emphasize that you may have a primary responsibility through a particular pillar. But, it is also important to state that our administration is not building silos but rather we are building a collaborative approach that will ensure that every part of government works harmoniously together for service delivery which in turn means good governance”, the Governor explained. While enjoining the new board members to be prepared for the tasks ahead, Governor Abiodun, said a retreat would soon be organized to facilitate the understanding of their mandate, scope of authority, responsibilities and the need to work together, particularly with the bureaucracy in their respective MDAs, to ensure smooth harmonious working relationship and group energy, to deliver on government’s agenda. Vanguard News Nigeria By James Ogunnaike, Abeokuta The Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun on Thursday vowed to severely deal with operators of illegal toll points in the State. Abiodun, who made this known while receiving in audience a three-man team from the Ogun- Guangdong Free Trade Zone, at his office in Oke… November 28, 2019 In "News" James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has charged civil and public servants in the State to brace up for the challenges of statecraft in the new year. According to the Abiodun, there are more serious tasks in the coming year which would put serious demand on… December 7, 2019 In "Politics" Funsho Arogundade Silently, but steadfastly, Governor Dapo Abiodun is redefining the art of governance in Ogun State. What many of his peers are making a song and a dance of and mounting billboards and taking advertorials in newspapers to celebrate as achievements, Governor Abiodun sees them as all in a… March 14, 2020 In "News"