Lagos- The State Judicial Panel of Enquiry and Restitution for Victims of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) related Abuses and other Matters, is being shown Lekki Toll Gate footages of early hours of October 20, recorded by the surveillance camera before the Soldiers shootings and killings of protesters that took place in the evening. The Managing Director of LCC, Abayomi Omomuwasi, had submitted the video footage on Tuesday. Soldiers have been accused of shooting at #EndSARS protesters, injuring and killing some, an allegation the military has denied. Panel chairman, Judge emeritus Doris Okuwobi directed that the footage, over 20 hours long, be played in full, following an application by a lawyer representing the #EndSARS protesters, Mr Adesina Ogunlana. She turned down the request of Lekki Concession Company (LCC) lawyer, Mr Rotimi Seriki, for the panel to start viewing of the recording captured from about 5pm on October 20. The alleged shootings are believed to have occurred from just over 6pm on October 20. The panel began viewing the footage at about 11:30am. Omomuwasi, who was subpoena by the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Enquiry and Restitution for Victims of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) related Abuses and other Matters, had on Tuesday told the panel that the surveillance  camera stopped recording at 8pm, on October 20, 2020, due to network issues. He said ” We never ever tempered with the surveillance camera until about 8pm, when it was tampered with and stopped recording, the network was interfered with which stooped the recording”. ” The cameras that was removed at the Lekki toll gate were plate numbers recognition cameras, they identify vehicle, vehicle identity and vehicle type” Omomuwasi. By Onozure Dania, Lagos The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Enquiry on Restitution for victims of SARS Related Abused and other matters, yesterday invited the Lekki Concession Company, (LCC), Managing Director Mr Abayomi Omomuwa to come and testify before it with regards to the events of October 20, where soldiers… October 30, 2020 In "News" Lekki Concession Company (LCC) has said that CCTV cameras at Lekki Tollgate stopped working at 8p.m. on Oct. 20, the day military men alleged shot at unarmed #EndSARS protesters. Managing Director of LCC, Mr Abayomi Omomuwasi, made the disclosure while testifying during proceedings of Lagos #EndSARS Judicial Panel on Tuesday.… November 3, 2020 In "News" By Onozure Dania, Lagos The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Enquiry and Restitution for Victims of Special Ant- Robbery Squad (SARS) related abuses and other matters, yesterday visited Ikoyi Military Hospital mortuary, controlled by 65, battalion, to inspect it following an intelligence tip off that the military hospitals mortuary could… October 30, 2020 In "News"