Exhausted rescue workers had reason to cheer for a moment as a 3-year-old girl was freed from the wreckage of a collapsed apartment building in Turkey on Tuesday, 91 hours after a deadly earthquake rocked the country’s western coast. The child was extracted safely, disaster management agency AFAD tweeted, from a building in the city of Izmir. Rescue workers cleared the debris around the toddler trapped in a tiny gap yet looking calm, an AFAD footage on Twitter showed. Health Minister Fahrettin Koca identified the girl as Ayda Gezgin, sharing footage of her talking to a health officer on an ambulance. State media initially identified her as Ayla. She tells her name and says she does not feel pain. “A new miracle,” state broadcaster TRT described her rescue, which comes almost 30 hours after the rescue of another girl of the same age from the wreckage in Izmir city. “I heard a child’s voice,” rescuer Ahmet Celik told reporters. “I put my head through the hole,” Celik said, his voice quivering. He recalled her saying she was very thirsty and requested water and ayran, a yoghurt beverage. An earthquake centred in the Aegean Sea hit both Turkey and Greece on Friday. “We are very happy. I can not describe the moment she stared at us,” another rescuer told TRT, describing how he gave her blood serum and covered her in a blanket. An image from the first moments of the rescue on TRT showed one rescuer kiss her and her holding the rescuer’s thumb. The girl is in good condition in hospital, state news agency Anadolu quoted Environment and Urbanization Minister Murat Kurum as saying in Izmir. The death toll in Izmir reached 102, while as many as 8,000 rescuers continued their efforts at four collapsed buildings, Kurum added. TRT said rescue efforts were underway for the mother who is also believed to be trapped, while the father was safe outside when the quake hit. Vanguard News Nigeria At least 39 people have died after a major earthquake struck western Turkey, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said, adding that as many as 103 survivors have been freed from collapsed buildings. A total of 885 people were hospitalized, 667 of whom have already been dismissed, Erdogan told reporters in Turkey's… November 1, 2020 In "Foreign" A 3-year-old girl was on Monday rescued from the rubble 65 hours after a deadly earthquake rocked Turkey’s western coast as the death toll climbed to 83. Rescue workers performed the delicate task of extricating the girl, Elif, from the rubble of an apartment building in the Turkish coastal city… November 2, 2020 In "News" Rescuers pulled two children from the rubble in a town in western Turkey on Monday, nearly three days after a powerful earthquake hit the Aegean, killing 85 people. Three-year-old Elif Perincek was rescued 65 hours after the 7.0-magnitude quake struck Turkey and Greece on Friday, the Turkish emergency authority AFAD… November 2, 2020 In "Foreign"