PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the quarterly National Security Council, NSC, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. President at the meeting are Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha; Chief of Staff to the President, Ibrahim Gambari, Attorney General of the Federation, AGF, and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami; and the Ministers of Defense Maj. Gen. Bashir Salihi Magaji (retd.). Others are the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola; Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyeama, and the Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Dingyadi. As at the time of sending this report, the National Security Adviser, NSA, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd) who coordinates the meeting was yet to come. The Service chiefs in attendance are the Chief of Defense Staff, General Gabriel Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ekwe-Ibas; and the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Sadique Abubakar. The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu; Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency, NIA, Ahmed Rafa’i Abubakar; and the Director-General of the Department of State Services, DSS, Yusuf Magaji Bichi are also present. Vanguard News Nigeria By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja Barely 24 hours after the National Assembly asked for the sack of the security chiefs, President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over national security council meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Among those in attendance are Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss… January 30, 2020 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Monday said that his government has the grasp of the security challenges in the country and was determined to implement solutions that would stand the test of time. February 12, 2018 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday summoned service chiefs and heads of security agencies for the third time in the week at the presidential villa, Abuja. June 7, 2018 In "News"