CHAIRMAN of Innoson Vehicles Manufacturing Company Limited, IVM, Chief Innocent Chukwuma, has cautioned that Federal Government’s plan to reduce the import duties and levies on buses, tractors and other motor vehicles as contained in the recent 2020 Finance Bill, will not only be a disincentive to investments, but will also set Nigeria’s automotive industry back by at least 10 years. Chief Chukwuma, who described the Federal Government’s decision as shocking said that it would lead to closure of many auto plants and job losses in no time. The Federal Executive Council, FEC, had, Wednesday, November 18, approved a reduction in duties on tractors from 35 percent to 10; reduction of duties on motor vehicles for the transportation of goods from 35 percent to 10 percent; and reduction of levy on motor vehicles for the transportation of persons from 35 per cent to five per cent. The downward review of duties and levies as well as the introduction of “tax incentives” were intended by the government to address the socio-economic problems arising from the COVID-19 pandemic and the recent hikes in the pump price of petrol and electricity tariff, but it has come under serious attack by local assembler who had invested heavily in the setting up of plants. Chukwuma argued that a reduction in duties on imported vehicles would lead to massive importation of fully built-up vehicles, resulting in unfavourable competition that is likely to run the Nigerian auto makers out of business. He described the duty review as an embarrassing policy somersault considering that the present charges on imported vehicles were prescribed by the Automotive Policy (the National Automotive Industry Development Plan, NAIDP) to discourage the influx of fully built-up products while helping to boost production by the domestic auto plants. Chukwuma whose plant was officially commissioned in 2010, feared that the reduction will erase the gains so far made in the industry since the Auto Policy took effect in July 2014, with total duties on imported vehicles pegged at between 35 percent and 70 percent. He also argued that the Federal Government’s plan would result in serious unemployment crisis as the local auto plants and related companies that will be adversely affected by the continents of the proposed bill, will be forced to lay off their workers in order to survive. According to him, his plant had just designed and produced two new affordable vehicle models – IVM Connect with a price tag of N4.5 million and seven-seater IVM minibus going for N5 million, stressing that the company invested heavily in the project with hundreds of units ready for delivery. “With this kind of investment in very affordable vehicles built to suit the present motoring needs of the Nigerian masses, it is discouraging to hear that government is coming up with a policy that favours importation, rather than encouraging those making impact in the auto industry and the economy generally.” Innoson recently launched an empowerment {ride-hailing} scheme in Enugu with 500 units of the IVM Connect for about 500 youths who are expected to make daily returns of N6, 000 for about 30 months, after which they take full ownership of the vehicles. The arrangement, it was learnt, will gradually be made available to other parts of the country. IVM produces a wide variety of automobiles, including small and big buses, passenger cars, and light commercial vehicles {pick-ups}, and according to Chukwuma, the government should have taken into consideration the consistently huge investments some of the genuine automakers have been making over the years, before taking the rash decision. The Innoson Group Chairman disclosed that he had invested billions of naira in the plant, citing similar huge investments by other genuine automakers, including the new owners of PAN Nigeria who recently committed to injecting about $150 million into the Kaduna factory. The investments, he feared would be lost if the new duty regime is implemented. “He further remarked, “The generous duty slash the Federal Government is planning will not only lead to a situation where fully built vehicles will flood the Nigerian market and result in the shut-down of local plants that are currently going through very difficult times, but will also discourage fresh local and foreign investors from investing their money in real production in the industry. “The people the reduction will favour are businessmen who would like to take advantage of the generous duties to make quick money without investing in the development of the local auto industry. “I will make more money importing fully built vehicles, but as a patriotic Nigerian, I believe that manufacturing is the way to go, because thousands of people are employed in factories and kept out of crime. “Government should not make the mistake of trying to solve a socio-economic problem and end up throwing thousands of people into the unemployment market, thereby increasing the already alarming rate of crime in the society. “This will make the problem worse. I, therefore, call on the Federal Executive Council to reverse last Wednesday’s decision and save our industry from collapse.” Vanguardngr.com By Udeme Akpan Chief Innocent Chukwuma, Chairman/CEO, Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing, IVM, has revealed that his company only imports engine and light, as all the electrical aspects and other equipment are sourced in-country. Innoson said this when Chairman/Group CEO of Oilserv Group, Dr. Emeka Okwuosa, commended IVM during the tour of… August 11, 2020 In "Motoring" Like cement, Nigeria appears to be on the track towards becoming vehicles manufacturing country again as local production has increased to 45,000 units per year, up 80 per cent from 25,000. April 6, 2017 In "Business" Like cement, Nigeria appears to be on the track towards becoming vehicles manufacturing country again as local production has increased to 45,000 units per year, up 80 per cent from 25,000. March 30, 2017 In "Business"