Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State on Monday described the killing of policemen by protesters in some parts of the country as evil. El-Rufai, who spoke to newsmen in Kaduna after the meeting of the Northern Governors Forum and traditional rulers as well as other key stakeholders in the region, said that the police must be supported to discharge their duties. He said that the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, had briefed the meeting on the #EndSARS protest and its aftermath. “We support the police, we believe that there may be some bad eggs in the police just as there are bad eggs in any organisation, but it is no excuse to destroy or kill policemen. “We hope to expand the footprints and the effectiveness of the Nigerian police in accordance with their mandate. “We have discussed closer collaboration with the Nigerian police and the governors to enhance community policing as a first step,” he said. El-Rufai also said the forum agreed on the need for community policing. “State police is a big subject in the constitutional amendment, at least we agreed on community policing which is the first step. ” It is the community police that will transmute into state police when the constitution is amended. “We believe that what is needed now is to restore confidence of the Nigerian police, give them more resources, more training and equipment so that they can do their job better in accordance with the best human right standards,” he said. On the #EndSARS protest, the governor said that the organisers had best of intentions for the country although the movement was hijacked by anti-democratic forces. “We believe that they have best of intentions, but there are people that are pushing their own evil, anti-democratic agenda. “We have taken very clear positions on some of these issues and we also back our road map, looking at various aspects of our lives, including Nigeria’s economic challenges, developmental and the almajiri problems. “We will be meeting again in February to measure our progress,” he added. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State has appealed to the people of Southern Kaduna zone, where he said 66 persons were killed recently, not to politicise the killing of innocent people by criminals, vowing that his government will stop at nothing to ensure that perpetrators of such heinous crimes are… February 18, 2019 In "News" Says he is not well informed on workings of NASS 9th Senate yet to receive any memorandum from him El-Rufai’s comment shows Buhari is not a listening President ― PDP APC government is not sincere about restructuring ― Ohanaeze How COVID-19 stalled APC’s move Our reporters THE Senate, yesterday, took a swipe… November 2, 2020 In "News" Governor Nasir El Rufai has appealed to the people of the volatile southern Kaduna zone, where he had said that 66 people were killed recently, not to politicise the killing of innocent people by criminals, vowing that his government will stop at nothing to ensure that perpetrators of such heinous… February 17, 2019 In "News"