Former President Goodluck Jonathan, Friday repeated what he said in 2015, during his Presidential campaign election. Jonathan who contested against President Muhammadu Buhari and lost, said: “Nobody’s ambition is worth the blood of any citizen”. Jonathan’s statement cannot be unconnected with the ongoing United States, elections. Recall that the Presidential candidate of the Republican, Donald Trump who of course is the American President has condemned the ongoing election, faulting many practices and procedures of the election. He had once said that he would never concede defeat, if Biden (a Democrat) wins. Currently Biden is leading him with a very wide margin as vote counting continues in some states. However, having ascertained the tone of Trump’s statement and recent conversations, Jonathan in what can be described as a philosophical thought, gives his unfiltered advice. According to him: “Nobody’s ambition is worth the blood of any citizen. It is better to gain honour at the cost of losing power, than to gain power at the cost of losing honour. At any point in time, the power of love should matter more than the love of power. This is my philosophy. I have lived it. It has brought great peace to both my beloved nation and I. And I recommend it to all leaders facing challenging situations, either in government, or at the polls, or even in their dealings with fellow political actors. GEJ” Vanguard Following the failed coup in Ethiopia, ex-President Goodluck Jonathan has condemned the attempted coup in Ethiopia, saying “Nobody’s Political Ambition Is Worth The Blood of Citizens in Ethiopia or Any Other Nation.” June 23, 2019 In "News" WHEN on February 19, 2011, President Goodluck Jonathan, who was running for his first term, said his “political ambition is not worth the blood of any Nigerian” that nobody should rig for him as every vote would be made to count, many observers, especially the opposition did not take him… August 23, 2014 In "Politics" President Goodluck Jonathan has told his supporters and the Peoples Democratic Party to be celebrating rather than mourning because he has kept his word of ensuring a free and fair election. In a message to the nation conceding defeat, President Jonathan reiterated that his ambition is not worth the blood… March 31, 2015 In "News"