THE people of Iseyin in Iseyin Local Government Area of Oyo State, have commended Governor Seyi Makinde for his diplomatic dept which they claimed, led to the ceding of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, by Osun State. Vanguard recalled that the National University Commission (NUC), recently announced the ceding of the ownership of the institution to Oyo State after the two States have entered into some agreements bothering on staff welfare and sharing of property of the university. In a statement signed by the National President, Iseyin Development Union (I.D.U), Alhaji Bayo Raji and made available to newsmen yesterday, the body described the development as a pointer to greater things that would happen to Oyo State in the nearest future. Raji, said the brickbats about ownership and sharing of responsibilities have been overcome, while the next step would be for the government and various stakeholders to take the institution back to its former glorious days. He called on Gov. Makinde to use the human and material potentials available in Iseyin to the fullest by citing a faculty of the university at the community. Raji said: “The governor has achieved what seemed impossible again by successfully getting the Osun State Government to cede ownership of LAUTECH to Oyo State, he has broken many jinxes in the areas of infrastructural facilities and welfare of the people of the State, we are grateful.” “On behalf of the people of Iseyin, we want to use the opportunity of this communication to appeal to our amiable governor to make use of human and material potentials that are in abundance in Iseyin and cite a faculty of the university there.” “We have arable lands, we have sites that are suitable for research for farming, raw materials and tourism, our prayers are always ready to work and are versed in skilled, academic, technology lines, while we have youths that are ready to work in the areas of unskilled callings too.” “Iseyin has a vast commercial capacity and will contribute more to the revenue drive of the State government if the faculty from LAUTECH is sited in our dear town,” he assured. The I.D.U National President also thanked the governor for the work pace on the Iseyin-Moniya road which he said would be over by early 2021, asking the governor to start work on the abandoned Oyo-Iseyin road as well as the Iseyin-Ogbomoso road that was announced recently by the government to be among projects that the government took loan to execute. He further noted that the last destruction and looting that was visited on public and private property in the town by hoodlums recently after the #EndSARS protest was condemned by the whole community. Raji hinted that renovation works were already ongoing at most of the stations of police and paramilitary agencies destroyed by the hoodlums. “The community have resolved to do some of the repairs on these facilities even with the promise by the state government to assist in putting them back in shape. “We decided not to wait till then, the people pulled resources together and the police station in Iseyin is currently undergoing repairs, other public places that were destroyed have been looked into and we are touching those places too.” He maintained that many of those who committed the offence have been arrested while about fifty motorcycles have been retrieved from them and taken to the police state command in Ibadan. Vanguard News Nigeria ***No winners, no losers ― Osun govt By Adesina Wahab The resolution of the ownership crisis over the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, LAUTECH, Ogbomoso by the National Universities Commission, NUC, between Osun and Oyo states was done in a manner that no side lost out, officials of the Osun… November 22, 2020 In "Education" By Adesina Wahab The National Universities Commission, NUC, has stepped into the lingering face-off between Oyo and Osun states over the funding and control of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, LAUTECH, Ogbomoso, jointly owned by the two states. The disagreement between the two states often leads to a situation… November 10, 2020 In "Education" By Adeola Badru Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has reiterated his commitment that no region in the state would be deprived or denied enjoying the wave of socio-economic development currently spreading across the state. The governor spoke yesterday, through the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Mrs Funmilayo… July 30, 2020 In "News"