A businessman, identified as Mr Manager Emgbeke, Thursday afternoon, was shot dead along Bomadi-Ohoror road in Delta state. Though the information was sketchy, the incident occurred at noon when the deceased, who hailed from Tuomo community, Burutu council area of Delta state, was reported to have been returning from a business trip in Ughelli. According to community sources, the deceased escaped death just a week ago in Ughelli, where he was shot and robbed by suspected business partners. A community chief, who confided in this reporter, noted that the victim was robbed of the sum of four million naira about a week ago at a motor park in Ughelli, after a transaction at a bank. “About a week ago, this same Manager was shot and robbed of four million naira at gunpoint in Ughelli after withdrawing the sum in a bank, but he escaped. “Today, he was returning from Ughelli on a business trip when he was shot along Bomadi-Ohoror road, just after Ohoror community. “He was rushed to a hospital at Bomadi but gave up the ghost on the way and his lifeless body has already been deposited in a morgue”. “We believe the same people who are identified to be his business partners of Urhobo decent perpetrated this dastardly crime”, he said. Vanguard News Nigeria ...As Catholic Bishop, residents appeal to Gov Okowa to fix road By Chancel Sunday Armed bandits, over the weekend, have again shot dead a driver of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (N.U.R.T.W), Mr Sunny, with two others sustaining various degrees of injuries along Bomadi-Ohoror road in Delta state.… November 24, 2019 In "Metro" By Chancel Sunday Armed bandits over the weekend, have again shot dead a driver of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (N.U.R.T.W), Mr Sunday Ogbe, with two others sustaining various degrees of injuries along Bomadi-Ohoror road in Delta state. According to a source who called this reporter around 2… November 25, 2019 In "News" UGHELLI— AT least six persons were, Monday, killed in a motor accident along the Ohoror‑Bomadi road, Patani Local Government Area, Delta State. April 16, 2014 In "News"