ENUGU— FOLLOWING the refusal of policemen to return to streets and roads across Enugu State, the state government has deployed members of its local vigilante, Forest Guards, to maintain security and order across the state. Members of the vigilante outfit were also deployed to Enugu metropolis to help the workers of the state Ministry of Works to control traffic gridlock that suddenly swamped the city, following the destruction of traffic lights. No single policeman, including traffic wardens, were seen on the streets of Enugu and on the interstate roads in the state. The Forest Guards officers, in their green uniform, are now in charge of maintaining security and order in the state. However, soldiers from the 82 Division of Nigeria Army complement the Forest Guards’ efforts with patrols in the city and environs. On a trip to Anambra State last Friday, no single policeman was seen on the road from Enugu to Anambra, which used to witness scores of checkpoints. The Forest Guards were also conspicuous in all the communities that border Enugu and other states; decently conducting themselves, taking thorough looks at occupants of vehicles before politely asking them to continue with their journey. Their presence in both the city and other interstate roads has restored a bit of confidence to residents and road users. VANGUARD In an age where propaganda has gained notoriety in the annals of governance in most parts of the country, Enugu state is lucky to be on cloud nine for five years running. May 15, 2020 In "News" Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State on Tuesday, joined Bishop Callistus Onaga of the Catholic Diocese of Enugu and other members of the clergy to bid the late Rev. Fr. Paul Offu farewell as he was laid to rest at the Holy Ghost Cathedral, Enugu, after a burial Mass. August 21, 2019 In "News" On May 29, 2015, the good people of Enugu State, friends and well-wishers gathered in large numbers at the popular Michael Okpara, Square, Enugu, to witness the inauguration of a pragmatic leader and true friend of the people, His Excellency Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, as the third  executive governor of… May 26, 2018 In "News"