A Liberian government worker immolated himself in the capital Monrovia on Monday, two witnesses and local media said, in an apparent protest over an unpaid salary. Leroy Archie Ponpon — who works at Liberia’s Temple of Justice, which houses the Supreme Court — set himself on fire outside his workplace after weeks of protesting at delayed pay, one of his colleagues told AFP. “Since last year, October, we have not received salary from the office. So we are talking about one year,” said Ponpon’s colleague, who declined to be named. The colleague added that protests began in September and that Ponpon was part of a group of about 30 employees who staged a sit-in, all of whom were subsequently suspended. Liberia’s justice ministry did not respond to requests for comment. Amadou Seedebe, 34, a bystander who also witnessed the immolation, said that Ponpon had been taken to hospital but that his condition was serious. Local press also reported that he is currently receiving treatment. Liberia is a poor nation decimated by back-to-back civil wars from 1989 to 2003 and West Africa’s 2014-16 Ebola crisis. Continuing economic woes including rampant inflation and fuel shortages have led to protests against President George Weah, a former international footballer. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Dominic Kpadeh heaves a hammer over his head to crack a half-tonne rock in a northern suburb of Liberia's capital Monrovia, knowing his hard labour earns him far less than a year ago. Kpadeh and his colleagues used to go home with $1,000 (900 euros) a month between them… January 18, 2020 In "Sports" Owerri, the Imo State capital, was virtually paralysed yesterday, as angry civil servants and pensioners trooped into the streets to protest months of unpaid salaries and allowances. August 25, 2015 In "News" It is a sweltering morning in the over-stretched Ebola clinic in the Liberian capital Monrovia, and Kendell Kauffeldt scowls in frustration as a jeep pulls up with a new patient. August 2, 2014 In "News"