THE nominee for the position of Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, has told the Senate that politicians’ failure to deliver on campaign promises is responsible for voter apathy. Yakubu also asked the National Assembly to ensure that the  Electoral Act Amendment  Bill was amended and ready by the first quarter of 2021. Professor Yakubu said this on Thursday in Abuja, when he appeared before the Senator Kabiru Gaya(APC-Kano South) led Senate Committee on INEC for screening and subsequent confirmation. Yakubu said: “One critical factor causing voter apathy in the country is performance of those elected into offices. This happens when they refuse to fulfill what they promised the electorate in previous elections. “Sometimes actually the performance of those elected is a very important factor. Some voters will ask ‘why should I go and vote because four years earlier some people made the same promise and nothing has changed. If nothing has changed, why should I go and vote?'” According to him, before elections, INEC will be involved in election education, while political parties should mobilise the people. Recall that President  Muhammadu Buhari had written the Senate, seeking for the screening and subsequent confirmation of Professor Mahmood Yakubu as the Chairman of INEC. The letter from President Buhari was read on Tuesday on the floor of the Upper Chamber by the President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan. Professor Yakubu’s name was submitted to the Senate for reappointment having completed his first five-year tenure. Vanguardngr.com ABUJA: Following his reappointment by President Muhammadu Buhari last month for a second term of office as Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, the professor of History has faced pockets of criticisms from some unnamed partisans who would rather have him out of the way. November 23, 2020 In "News" With Nigerians storming many of the campaign venues of the leading presidential candidates, concern that the enthusiasm may be misplaced has come to the fore in the face of progressive decline in voter turnout over the last four election cycles. February 11, 2019 In "News" With Nigerians storming many of the campaign venues of the leading presidential candidates, concern that the enthusiasm may be misplaced has come to the fore in the face of progressive decline in voter turnout over the last four election cycles. February 11, 2019 In "News"