The Emir of Bichi, Dr. Nasiru Ado Bayero, has expressed gratitude to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State for the peace the Northern community has been enjoying in the state, under his administration. The Emir of Bichi told Gov. Ugwuanyi that his administration’s commitment to national integration and peaceful co-existence of all Nigerians in Enugu State, irrespective of tribe, religion and political differences is “well acknowledged”, adding that “we will not forget that; we will be grateful to you forever”. Dr. Ado Bayero also appreciated the traditional rulers in Enugu State, stressing that based on “your relationship with the Northern community in your own local communities, our reports from them have been positive; so we are very grateful”. Speaking when Gov. Ugwuanyi played host to him at the Government House, Enugu, the Emir, who is the younger brother to the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero, used the opportunity to assure the governor that “back in Kano State, we will protect your interest; we will make sure that any Igbo man or any other Nigerian who lives Kano is safe. He maintained that “our relationship has grown beyond now and we will not allow this to grow any bad situation”. The Emir therefore lauded Gov. Ugwuanyi for his hospitality and uncommon leadership style anchored on peace, security, inclusive and good governance. Describing his visit to Enugu State as a homecoming, he narrated the enduring relationship his late father, Ado Bayero, enjoyed with his Igbo friends, especially when he was the Chancellor of the University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN) for over 20 years. He disclosed that his visit to the state was “to build that bridge between the Northern Nigeria and this part of Nigeria, the East”, stressing: “We shall continue to build that bridge; we shall continue to make sure that Nigeria remains one and despite all of these, we shall remain brothers by the grace of God”. Vanguard News Nigeria The Arewa Youths Forum on Saturday honoured Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State with an Award of Excellence in recognition of the existing peace and good governance in the state. August 5, 2018 In "News" The people of Agbada Nenwe in Aninri Local Government Area of Enugu State, members of the Hausa/Fulani community and Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) in the South East zone, have denied the video trending on social media over the purported expulsion of some herders and their cattle… July 1, 2019 In "News" Ahead of March 9 governorship and state assembly elections, the Archbishop of Enugu Ecclesiastical Province (Anglican Communion) Most Rev. Dr. Emmanuel Chukwuma, has reiterated his support for Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s reelection, calling on all eligible voters in the state to come out en masse and vote for the governor and… March 4, 2019 In "News"