An October 25 prayer walk by supporters of U.S. President Donald Trump in Onitsha, Anambra, has caught his attention. On Tuesday, Trump tweeted an Election Day message of gratitude for the parade describing it as a “great honour”. “A parade for me in Nigeria, a great honor!”, the president said in the message, which accompanies a video of the parade. A parade for me in Nigeria, a great honor! pic.twitter.com/EHiSQMFvSZ — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 3, 2020  According to reports, the parade was staged by members of the Living Christ Mission, led by its founder and leader, Daddy Hezekiah. The video shows the worshippers marching through a street waving U.S. flags and carrying banners with Trump’s portrait while singing. Ironically, Trump was widely reported to have called Nigeria a “shit-hole country” during a private meeting at the White House in 2018. The president strongly denied the reports, but has gone ahead to impose migrant visa restrictions on Nigeria, citing national security concerns. Some Nigerian-American voters interviewed by NAN in New York on Tuesday said they voted against Trump over his visa restrictions on Nigeria. “A president who doesn’t like immigrants, who just want to send everybody back home is not a president we should be voting for. Trump is waging an immigration war against Nigerians,” said Mr Olayinka Dan-Salami, chairman of the Organisation of the Advancement of Nigerians (OAN). Salami said the president’s “anti-Nigeria” visa policy is born of out of  “jealousy of the accomplishments of Nigerians in this country”. Meanwhile, Trump claims that he has done more for the African American community than any president in the country’s history. “Nobody’s done what I’ve done in terms of the African American community. And they see it. “And they’re tired of being used by the Democrats for 100 years,” Trump told newsmen at his campaign headquarters in Virginia on Tuesday. (NAN)  The United States President Donald Trump has expressed his gratitude to some Nigerians who held a walk for his reelection on Tuesday. The US President shared a video of the Nigerians parading the streets, waving the United States flag and his picture.   A parade for me in Nigeria, a… November 3, 2020 In "News" Law enforcement officers in Washington have been put on the alert as hundreds of thousands of people plan to celebrate or protest Donald Trump’s inauguration as president of the United States. January 20, 2017 In "News" U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted and then deleted a video in which his supporters could be heard repeating a “white power” slogan, in the latest instance in which the president was accused of inflaming racial tensions. June 30, 2020 In "Foreign"