I have not conceded defeat; Joe Biden and I have a long way to go, American President Donald Trump said on Sunday. Biden won 306 votes in state-by-state Electoral College that decides who wins the White House, against Donald Trump who garnered 232 votes. Trump had insisted that the United States Presidential election was rigged, noting that he would seek redress in Supreme Court. Reacting via his verified twitter handle, Trump admitted that Biden won the election, but won in the eyes of the fake news media. His words: “He only won in the eyes of the FAKE NEWS MEDIA. I concede NOTHING! We have a long way to go. This was a RIGGED ELECTION! RIGGED ELECTION. WE WILL WIN! “He won because the Election was Rigged. NO VOTE WATCHERS OR OBSERVERS allowed, vote tabulated by a Radical Left privately owned company, Dominion, with a bad reputation & bum equipment that couldn’t even qualify for Texas (which I won by a lot!), the Fake & Silent Media, & more! “All of the mechanical “glitches” that took place on Election Night were really THEM getting caught trying to steal votes. They succeeded plenty, however, without getting caught. Mail-in elections are a sick joke!” He only won in the eyes of the FAKE NEWS MEDIA. I concede NOTHING! We have a long way to go. This was a RIGGED ELECTION! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 15, 2020  RIGGED ELECTION. WE WILL WIN! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 15, 2020  He won because the Election was Rigged. NO VOTE WATCHERS OR OBSERVERS allowed, vote tabulated by a Radical Left privately owned company, Dominion, with a bad reputation & bum equipment that couldn’t even qualify for Texas (which I won by a lot!), the Fake & Silent Media, & more! https://t.co/Exb3C1mAPg — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 15, 2020  All of the mechanical “glitches” that took place on Election Night were really THEM getting caught trying to steal votes. They succeeded plenty, however, without getting caught. Mail-in elections are a sick joke! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 15, 2020  Vanguard news Nigeria By Femi Fani-Kayode "The blue wave has reached its peak and zenith. The red shall rise, swallow it up and overwhelm it. Joe Biden's dreams shall be dashed, his "victory" annulled and his celebrations shortlived. Donald Trump shall do a second term and the name of the Lord shall be… November 9, 2020 In "Viewpoint" United States (US) President Donald Trump appeared to edge closer towards acknowledging his election defeat in a tweet on Sunday morning, as he again railed against supposed mass fraud in the vote won by challenger Joe Biden. "He won because the Election was Rigged. NO VOTE WATCHERS OR OBSERVERS allowed,… November 15, 2020 In "Foreign" Thousands of die-hard Donald Trump supporters rallied for a last stand Saturday in Washington, chanting "four more years" and blaming fraud for an election defeat that will force the president to vacate the White House after just one term. Trump himself made a drive-past in his armored motorcade, on his… November 15, 2020 In "News"