THIS piece will be highly offensive to many public university workers in Nigeria but since there is nothing more bitter than the truth, it has to be told. All I want to achieve with this, frankly speaking, is for public university staff to see how they have always been instrumental to the break out of strike actions that last several months without significant achievement afterwards. For this to be clear, I have the following facts from the literature: What I want you to notice in the literature cited above is that the four unions in the public universities are just to represent the entire staff and that they are expected to struggle together for common goals, while they struggle separately when the goals are context-based. May I call the attention of the national and branch executives of ASUU, NAAT, NASU and SSANU that if truly public university system is what you are defending; if truly the interest of their members (university staff) is what they are fighting for, then they must end ‘divide and rule’ tactics among the unions. So I say, #EndDivideandRuleNow. I know many of the staff will find this difficult to digest for many reasons. But do you ever think about the thoughts of the society when: aIt is extremely difficult for anyone to take the university workers serious with this ‘me-and-my-union-alone’ attitude. Besides, it is a shameful thing to defend them in public. It is time we synergised on how university staff will be able to speak with one voice on common issues. This is not, in any way, to say that the four unions should be made one but there must be a time of meeting on common issues. For instance, when the issue of IPPIS came up, had it been that all the four unions rejected it and nobody enrolled in it, government might have been guided to take a second look and possibly jettison it. Which means the ongoing strike might not have been started at all. I recently raised this argument in my university and some elders argued for, while some were against it. One of those who supported this argued that the four unions were just parts of a single system. When any of the parts malfunctions, the whole system suffers for it, hence we need to see ourselves as partners in progress. One of the arguments against the coming together of the unions to fight a common enemy is that it was tried in the past but failed. But I quickly asked if its failure in the past is enough reason why it should not be tried again. I mean, failure is part of learning. All we need to do is to research on why it failed and work around the reasons. I am sure we all know where disunity of the public university staff is heading to by now. If you are in doubt, let me quote some pronouncements from the Minister of Labour, Dr. Chris Ngige, who has been fighting the public universities for the Federal Government: I hope you know what it means for university governing council to generate its own resources to pay workers – heavy tuition fees to be paid by the students. To sum up, I want all university workers to realise that we are all labourers in the system with different but significant roles to play. We also have common enemies, the public university administration and the government. These two stakeholders have something to gain when the staff members are suffering. While the principal officers in the university enrich themselves by exploiting the other workers, the government officials majority of who have private institutions gain more patronage in their glorified-secondary-schools called universities. Besides, the destruction of public universities limits the number of children of common Nigerians to compete with their children for power and in labour market. Therefore, for us to have our universities, for the children of Nigerian masses to have university education, ASUU, NAAT, NASU and SSANU must #EndDivideandRuleNow. Dr Salami is of the Department of Early Childhood and Educational Foundations, University of Ibadan Vanguard News Nigeria The Congress of University Academics (CONUA), a faction of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), says it has opened its branch at the University of Port Harcourt. The groups South-South National Deputy Coordinator 1, Dr Iyawe Hanson, announced this to newsmen at a briefing in Port Harcourt on Wednesday.… November 27, 2019 In "Education" HOW time has changed the vision and ideological reflexes of the umbrella of students’ unionism in Nigeria, the National Association of Nigerian Students, NANS! January 16, 2019 In "Editorial" THE Association of Vice Chancellors of Nigerian Universities, AVCNU, weekend, said there was need to put unionism in the right perspective to be responsive and responsible to nation building. November 18, 2013 In "News"