The African Development Bank Group (AfDB) has approved the investment of $25 billion to develop agriculture in Nigeria and four other African countries. President, AfDB, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, disclosed this at a virtual conference to mark the 10th anniversary of Sahel Group, a private equity firm focused on agribusiness. .Adesina said the other countries to benefit from the fund are Senegal, Gabon, Mali and Sudan. Specifically, he said that the fund will help Nigeria transform from being a net importer of fertilizer to a fertilizer exporting nation. He noted that in total, AfDB is granting a facility of $510 million for agricultural development in Nigeria. He stated: “In Nigeria, the bank is supporting Indorama Eleme Fertilizers and Chemicals with $210 million for the construction and operation of two urea fertilizer plants, with capacity of 2.8 million tons per annum. “The bank provided $300 million corporate loan to Dangote Industries, for the establishment of a crude oil refinery and a urea fertilizer plant with 2.8 million tons per year capacity.” According to Adesina, the next group of millionaires and billionaires of Africa will come from agriculture, with the size of the food and agricultural market estimated at over $1trillion by 2030. He emphasized the importance of the Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement, adding that countries in Africa must use the market effectively by producing more food through agro-industrialisation that supports smallholder farmers and the private sector. Vanguard News Nigeria The African Development Bank (AfDB) has appealed to International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank to work out a financial support system for Nigeria and other west African countries which economies were threatened by insecurity. January 30, 2020 In "News" Dangote Industries Limited has secured a $300 million facility from African Development Bank, AFDB to finance the construction of its crude oil refinery and Greenfield fertilizer manufacturing plant. June 24, 2014 In "Energy" The month of May is going to be a special year in the annals of Nigerian history as General Muhammadu Buhari will be sworn in as the President of the country having defeated the incumbent, President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. In the same month of May another Nigerian, Dr. Akinwunmi Adesina,… April 27, 2015 In "Finance"