At the backdrop of increased focus on micro, small and medium enterprises, MSMEs, as main drivers of growth, Excite Enterprise, a digital business development and enterprise solutions provider, is set to launch simplified innovations designed to sustain success rates in the MSMEs sector. Director, Excite Enterprise, Mr Bolaji Okusaga, said that access to funds will reduce the limitations on the potentials for trade and integration amongst registered and unregistered MSMEs. According to him, “Excite seeks to help businesses scale by providing them with access to business and financial management services, marketing tools as well as opportunities to list their products and services.” Okusaga said the sector is under-optimized due to lack of valuable business knowledge and tools. He stated: “This is the gap that Excite Enterprise aims to fill. We provides innovative services to develop and deepen markets for MSMEs thus providing entrepreneurs across the MSME business space an opportunity to reach consumers; boost brand names; sales; competitiveness; and improve rendered services. These businesses will also be able to access funding to scale up their potentials while also having entry to a bigger market. Our unique selling proposition is that we have aggregated all services so that our customers can find them all in one place.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Providence Adeyinka A firm, Excite Enterprise, a digital business development and enterprise solutions provider, intends to debut in the Nigerian market with various simplified innovations, designed to lead Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises, MSMEs, on the pathway to success and sustainability. Excite Enterprise delivers digital solutions geared towards the… November 14, 2020 In "News" The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) has called for active participation of youths in Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to enhance Nigeria's economic development. July 26, 2018 In "Business" An economic expert, Mr Franklyn Akinyosoye, has said the gap between Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and the Federal Government is hindering the level of economic development in the country. October 15, 2017 In "News"