The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has described as “extremely fruitful“ the meeting which a presidential team had with leaders and stakeholders of the South-East. “The meeting of the presidential delegation with South-East leaders was very useful,’’ Mohammed told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Enugu. The delegation, led by Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, met for more than eight hours in Enugu with selected South-East leaders. Mohammed said that it was quite instructive that all the groups which took part in the meeting believed in the unity and oneness of the country, pointing out that they clearly spelt out this in their presentations. “We listened clearly and carefully to all the positions and demands and we are going back to report directly to President Buhari,’’ the minister told NAN. He noted that the Federal Government had been spreading development and infrastructure to all parts of the country, simultaneously and equitably. “We want the South-East people to be confident that the Federal Government is spreading development and infrastructure to all parts of the country equitably and will never marginalise any zone in the ongoing development and infrastructure agenda. “This is what I want to assure Nigerians living in the South-East,’’ Mohammed noted. According to the minister, when the team gets back to Abuja it will see what can be done immediately concerning some of the positions and demands made by the South-East leaders. The presidential delegation met with South-East governors, statesmen, elders, religious and traditional leaders, as well as market women and youth leaders. Apart from the Mohammed and Gambari, other members of the presidential delegation were the Inspector-General of Police, Mr Mohammad Adamu; the Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr Chris Ngige, the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama. The Minister of State for Trade and Investment, Dr Uchenna Ogah, the Minister of State for Education, Dr Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba and the Minister of State for Environment Sharon Ikeazor. By Dennis Agbo Igbo leaders that comprised the South East Governors, political, religious, traditional and youth leaders have told President Muhammadu Buhari that they stand for an indivisible and United Nigeria. The leaders however said that the country must be built on love, fairness, equity and Justice. They made the… November 7, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government on Saturday solicited the support of South-East governors and leaders in the zone on social media regulation to check fake news and misinformation of Nigerians.. The Minister of Information and Culture, Mr Lai Mohammed, made the appeal while speaking at a presidential delegation interaction with South-East governors… November 7, 2020 In "News" Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf was the Minister of Information in the dying days of Saddam Hussein’s regime in Iraq. Nicknamed “Comical Ali” by British tabloids, al-Sahaf made a fool of himself during the Iraqi war by constantly fabricating victories of the Iraqi army, even as territory after territory fell to the… December 29, 2015 In "Femi Aribisala"