The United Arab Emirates, on Sunday, said it will grant all doctors and infectious disease experts living in the country a 10-year Golden Residency visa, for helping to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum, made this known in a tweet, which listed other categories of beneficiaries of the UAE Golden Residency visa to include specialists in AI, big data, virology, epidemiology and UAE’s high school top graduates and their families. He added that “We are keen to embrace talent that drives future development and this is only the beginning.” Note that immigrants in the UAE, as in other Gulf countries, are given limited residence visas which is linked to their current employment, with long-term residency a difficult privilege. However, tweeting about the UAE Golden Residency visa, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum said: “UAE Golden Visa will also include UAE-based physicians as well as engineers in the fields of computer science, electronics, programming, electricity and biotechnology. “UAE Golden Visa will also include UAE-based physicians as well as engineers in the fields of computer science, electronics, programming, electricity and biotechnology. “Today, we approved granting the 10-year Golden Visa to all Ph.D. holders in the UAE. Also, the Golden Visa will be granted to top graduates from UAE-accredited universities with a GPA of 3.8 and above.” Other categories granted UAE Golden Residency are specialists in AI, big data, virology, epidemiology & UAE’s high school top graduates and their families. We are keen to embrace talent that drives future development and this is only the beginning. — HH Sheikh Mohammed (@HHShkMohd) November 15, 2020  Vanguard News Nigeria The United Arab Emirates, UAE, said Tuesday it has launched a permanent residency scheme to attract wealthy individuals and highly skilled workers to the oil-rich Gulf country. May 21, 2019 In "Travel & Tourism" The United Arab Emirates has announced plans to allow 100 percent ownership and visa incentives to foreigners, in a bid to attract investors to boost its slowing national economy. May 21, 2018 In "News" The Inspector General of Police, Mr Ibrahim Idris, Sunday led delegations of senior Police officers to Dubai. November 18, 2018 In "News"