The Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers, on Saturday lamented the killing of a first-class Oba in Ondo State by unidentified gunmen, describing it as both worrisome and against the Yoruba tradition and custom. The council, in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ado Ekiti by its Chairman and the Alaawe of Ilawe Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi, described the manner of the death of the Oba as most unfortunate and regrettable. According to the council, the sudden death of the Olufon of Ifon, Oba Adegoke Adeusi, on 26 November, 2020, is shocking and calls for concern. Oba Alabi said that it was embarrassing and painful that the Olufon was killed by unknown gunmen while on his way to his domain after an official engagement. He prayed that God will grant his soul eternal rest. The Chairman of the Council said the ugly development and the rude manner of the death of Oba Adeusi had further buttressed the point that the issue of insecurity in the country should be handled with the utmost seriousness it deserved. He called on the Federal and state governments to further increase adequate air and land surveillance to be able to identify the hideouts of the criminals for appropriate action. He also called on all Nigerians to be security conscious and be ready to support government in the onerous task of ensuring security in the different communities. He commiserated with Ondo State Council of Traditional rulers, the Government and people of the state on the killing of the first-class traditional ruler. The Chairman also consoled with members of the immediate family of the late Oba Olufon, praying God to grant them the fortitude to bear the great loss. He said that this is the time for Amotekun to commence its operations across the South West geopolitical zone as a panacea for insecurity in the zone, especially during the yuletide season,” Vanguard News Nigeria Shina Abubakar - Osogbo The Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, has condemned the killing of Olufon of Ifon, Oba Adegoke Adeusi, calling on security agency to fish out the perpetrators. Oluwo in a statement by his spokesperson, Alli Ibrahim on Friday, described the incident as sacrilegious as he… November 27, 2020 In "News" EKITI—WHAT promises to be a long drawn battle between the Governor Kayode Fayemi led administration in Ekiti State and the Council of Traditional Rulers has been ignited with the rejection of Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Alabi by 16 prominent Obas, popularly known as Pelupelu or Alademerindilogun as the Chairman… August 16, 2019 In "News" By Rotimi Ojomoyela The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi has settled the dispute between some prominent traditional rulers in Ekiti state and the state government. Trouble started when Governor Kayode Fayemi appointed Alawe of Ilawe, Oba Ajibade Alabi as the Chairman of the State Council of Traditional Rulers, an… March 16, 2020 In "News"