US President Donald Trump signed an order Thursday that will ban Americans from investing in Chinese firms that could help Beijing’s military and security apparatus. The executive order said the Chinese government obliges private firms to support these activities and through capital markets “exploits United States investors to finance the development and modernization of its military.” The ban takes effect January 11 just days before Trump’s presidency ends and is the latest move in increasingly tense US relations with the Asian power. Investors have until November 11, 2021 to divest any holdings in the banned companies, according to the order. Trump declared a national emergency saying American investors are helping China “to directly threaten the United States homeland and United States forces overseas, including by developing and deploying weapons of mass destruction, advanced conventional weapons, and malicious cyber-enabled actions against the United States and its people.” The prohibition targets a list of 31 companies, including telecoms, aerospace and construction firms, according to press reports. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria China summoned the US ambassador on Sunday to protest the arrest of a top executive from telecom giant Huawei in Canada, as Washington's top trade negotiator rejected suggestions that the case could affect talks aimed at settling a trade war. December 9, 2018 In "News" The US government announced Thursday it would delay enforcement of a ban on TikTok, saying it would comply with a court order in favor of the Chinese-owned social media sensation. The hit shortform video app was forbidden based on national security concerns voiced by US officials, but the Commerce Department… November 13, 2020 In "Technology" The United States slapped sanctions Friday on Hong Kong's leader after effectively forcing Chinese internet giants TikTok and WeChat to end all US operations, in a twin diplomatic-commercial offensive set to grow ahead of US elections. In the toughest US action on Hong Kong since Beijing imposed a security clampdown… August 8, 2020 In "Foreign"