 Osun State Government has reiterated its commitment to protecting the lives and property of resident and deal with anyone fomenting trouble across the state. This was contained in a statement issued by the State Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode on Sunday.  She disclosed that the state is aware of plans by some individuals to start fresh round of violence in the state, but added that security agencies have been briefed to deal decisively with anyone involved in such violence. She warned that the state cannot afford to go through another round of violence, hence, urged youths not allowed themselves to be used by those wanting to create trouble for the state.  It reads, “Osun State Government is aware of the plot by some unscrupulous elements, teleguided by agents of anarchy, to spark trouble in the state by starting another round of hooliganism tomorrow, Monday 2nd November 2020.  “The government is imploring parents, guardians and well-meaning citizens of the state to caution their wards not to allow themselves to be used to satisfy the knavish tricks of these elements who are determined to trouble the state with their misguided actions. “The State has been through enough crisis in the past weeks and cannot afford another at this time.  “Security agencies have been fully briefed to be on the alert and to protect the peace of the state. Let’s not forget what the last round of trouble cost the state. The government will not fold its hands while some characters try to experiment with the the lives and livelihood of the people of Osun.  “The government hereby warns that those found joining any gathering  that can bring trouble to the state or unsettle citizens will answer fully to the law enforcement agents who are already on the alert”.  The Lagos State Government on Tuesday reiterated its determination to deal decisively with anyone found engaged in cultism and criminal activities. Mr Steve Ayorinde, the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, conveyed the government’s resolve in a statement in Ikeja. January 26, 2016 In "News" Osogbo—There was a drama in Osogbo yesterday when people suspected to be thugs disrupted a pro and anti-Aregbesola protesters over a petition by Justice Folahanmi Oloyede, a serving judge of the state high court to the state House of Assembly to investigate Governor Rauf Aregbesola for alleged mismanagement of the… July 8, 2015 In "News" Ogun state police command  has raised  the alarm  that it had uncovered a clandestine plan by some disgruntled elements to unleash violence on the innocent citizens of the state under the cover of some transport unions in the state. June 1, 2019 In "News"