The World Health Organisation (WHO) Director-General, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, told the Member States on Monday that efforts to tackle climate change and poverty had been set back by a lack of global unity since major agreements were struck five years ago, Addressing the World Health Assembly, which resumed proceedings on Monday after its annual session in May was cut short by Covid-19 pandemic, Dr. Tedros said he welcomed the chance to work with the presumptive new US administration of president-elect Joe Biden. Dr. Tedros said the world had achieved a “great convergence” in 2015 when governments adopted the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Agreement, and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on finance for development. “Since then, the creeping tides of misguided nationalism and isolationism have eroded that sense of common purpose. The Paris Agreement has been undermined; the commitments made in the Addis Ababa Action Agenda have gone largely unfulfilled; and although there has been progress toward the SDGs, too often our efforts have remained siloed and splintered,” he said. The pandemic had set the SDGs back even further while also providing evidence of their importance, he added, according to a UN statement. “However, we must be honest: we can only realise the full power and potential of the SDGs if the international community urgently recaptures the sense of common purpose that gave birth to them. In that spirit, we congratulate President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris and we look forward to working with their administration very closely.” Dr. Tedros said it was time for a new era of cooperation, with emphasis on health and well-being globally. “It’s time for the world to heal – from the ravages of this pandemic, and the geopolitical divisions that only drive us further into the chasm of an unhealthier, un-safer and unfairer future,” he said “The world has reached a fork in the road. We cannot afford to pump carbon dioxide into the atmosphere at the same rate and still breathe clean air. We must choose. “We cannot afford ever-deepening inequalities and expect continued peace and prosperity. We must choose. And we cannot afford to see health merely as a by-product of development, or a commodity that only the rich can afford,” he said. “Today and every day, we must choose health. We’re one big family.” Vanguard Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus, World Health Organisation (WHO) Director-General on Monday said efforts to tackle climate change and poverty had experienced setback because of lack of global unity. Ghebreyesus said this at the ongoing World Health Assembly (WHA) being held virtually in Geneva. According to him, efforts to tackle climate change… November 10, 2020 In "News" This May, at the 70th World Health Assembly, the new Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO) will be elected by Health Ministers of Member States. May 6, 2017 In "News" By Owei Lakemfa TEDROS Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the Ethiopian microbiologist who heads the World Health Organisation, WHO, is simultaneously engaged in perhaps the two biggest battles in his 55 years on earth. He is leading humanity’s fight against the treacherous COVID-19 virus, and a battle to remain in office against the… May 1, 2020 In "Owei Lakemfa"