Benue state government, Monday, confirmed that the strange ailment that recently claimed 20 lives in Okpeilo-Otukpa community in Ogbadibo Local Government Area of Benue State was Yellow Fever. The Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Mrs Ngunan Addingi who made the confirmation in Makurdi while briefing reporters at the end of the weekly State Executive Council, EXCO, meeting presided over by Governor Samuel Ortom, explained that the blood samples taken to the National Reference Laboratory in Abuja confirmed the diagnosis. The Commissioner said the government had directed that the entire Ogbadibo LGA be vaccinated to prevent further spread and loss of lives in the area. “Apart from Ogbadibo LGA, Okpokwu and Ado LGAs which are close LGAs and in some areas share the same stream and markets will also benefit from the exercise,” she said. On other decisions taken at the meeting, Mrs Addingi said the EXCO also approved the constitution of an Information and Communication Technology, ICT, Council for the state. She said the 13-member council would serve as an advisory body to the government on all state ICT related matters and would design a roadmap for the development of ICT in Benue. “Its duties also include collaboration with Federal Ministry of Communications and digital economy, relevant agencies and departments and non-governmental organisations to attract investments in ICT in the State,” she said. Mrs Addingi said the EXCO approved the purchase of tables and chairs by the State Universal Basic Education Board, SUBEB for distribution to UBEC schools across the State through direct purchase. She said the EXCO also ratified the report of the steering committee for the execution of the forthcoming Benue Youth Summit scheduled to hold between November 25th and 27th 2020. Vanguard News Nigeria Ortom approves fund, orders investigation of ailment By Peter Duru - Makurdi An unknown ailment has reportedly claimed the lives of 17 persons in Okpeilo-Otukpa community in Ogbadibo Local Government Area, LGA, of Benue State. Vanguard gathered from a source in the area that the unknown ailment which broke out… November 10, 2020 In "Health" The United Nations Children’s Fund, UNICEF, with financial support from the Department for International Development, DFID has pledged sustained support for Benue to enable the state attain Open Defecation Free, ODF, status by 2025. February 13, 2020 In "News" Minister of Water Resources, Engr. Suleiman Adamu has commended the United Nations Children’s Fund, UNICEF, and the DFID for supporting the implementation of the Sanitation Hygiene and Water in Nigeria (SHAWN) Project under which Ogbadibo Local Government Area, LGA, of Benue state attained an Open Defecation Free, ODF, status. February 15, 2020 In "News"