Investdata Consulting Limited  has announced   plans   for its Invest 2021 Summit tagged “New Opportunities and New Paths To Profit,” aimed at helping investors navigate Nigeria’s troubled investment terrain. In a statement last week InvestData said, “Our team of top-notch investment and economic analysts will take participants at the virtual event through various topics aimed at helping them discover opportunities for robust returns on investment by taking position early as the New Year 2021 opens. Topics slated for discussion include “2020 Review and 2021 Stock Market Ride: Where to Shop for Profit in Any Market Condition,” by Alhaji Garba Kurfi, a chartered accountant, and stockbroker, who is MD/CEO, APT Securities & Funds Ltd. Abdul-Rasheed Momoh, Head, Capital Market TRW Stockbrokers Ltd, will take participants through “Volatility: How to use Resistance and Support for Profitable Trading in 2021 and beyond;” while “2021 Budget and Oscillating Crude Oil Prices: Implication for the Nigerian Economy and Stock Market,” will be handled by Abiola Rasaq, of the CSCS Plc. A statement by Investdata Consulting quoted Mr Ambrose Omordion , Chief Operating Officer, InvestData   as assuring   the public that while meeting and listening to these top equity traders and investment experts share their knowledge and expertise, participants will be armed “with information and tools needed to make money and become successful investors in 2021 and beyond.” Investdata Consulting Ltd will on Saturday, December 7, 2019, hold its yearly edition of its summit where investors and analysts will review this year’s equity market and the dynamics and trading opportunities in the equity market and Nigerian economy in 2020 and beyond. December 6, 2019 In "Business" Investdata Consulting Limited, an investment and wealth creation firm said that its 10 predictable golden stocks have yielded 13.7 percent returns on the average in five weeks, from December 9, 2019 to Friday, January 10, 2020. January 14, 2020 In "Business" IT is generally believed that there is no better time to invest in the Nigerian capital market than now when prices of equities are falling. On the other hand, analysts have predicted a possible elongation of the present economic impairment. What will be your advice to an investor caught in… April 17, 2017 In "Finance"