In what could be described as a betrayal of their Hippocratic oath, doctors in lmo State University Teaching Hospital Orlu are alleged to be abandoning patients to die. It was alleged that the mortuary in the tertiary health institution is overwhelming with corpses such that government is planning mass burial. According to a report of the panel set up by government to investigate the institution, the patients were allegedly left to their fate because they refused to patronise private clinics owned by the doctors. The panel’s report alleged that many of the doctors use the hospital as their liaison office from where they allegedly poach patients to their clinics. It was also alleged that patients who don’t have money to attend the private clinics are abandoned to die. “Because of this anomaly, almost 80 percent of patients who go to IMSUTH end up dying. That is why the mortuary is filled to the brim and mass burial is contemplated’, the report indicated”, the report said. Angered by the development, the government dismissed the chief medical director and also ordered his prosecution. Among the alleged fraud in the hospital is the padding of salary from N147m paid in December 2019 to N236m in January 2020 when Governor Hope Uzodinma assumed office. Also, a top official of the hospital allegedly awarded himself monthly salary of N1.6m contrary to extant laws while he allegedly caused to disappear N10m monthly IGR. Imo State Commissioner for information and Strategy, Chief Declan Emelumba, announced to newsmen in Owerri that government took the measures to save the hospital. He disclosed that government was also going to punish all staff members indicted in the report. Vanguardngr.com RIPPLE effects of the indefinite strike called by Lagos doctors under the auspices of Medical Guild took its toll on healthcare institutions in the state, yesterday, as several cases of deaths were allegedly recorded following paralysis of medical and clinical services even as patronage from patients dipped significantly. April 26, 2012 In "News" THE ‘resurrection’ of 70-year-old Amos Otene after he was certified dead by medical practitioners and made to spend over 30 hours in a mortuary in Makurdi, Benue State capital has thrown up a debate. Doctors, according to a report, at a private hospital in the town had, on Wednesday, August… October 18, 2015 In "Special Report" Everyday people die from illnesses that have easy cures . They are denied healthcare because they cannot pay. They die because they are poor. And many are poor because they lack opportunity. But even those who are poor , the way libertarians would have us believe , should not die… July 4, 2015 In "Frank & Fair"