Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani Saturday accused arch-foe Israel of trying to create “chaos” by assassinating one of Tehran’s top nuclear scientists, but said his country will not fall into a “trap”. Scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh was “martyred” after being seriously wounded when assailants targeted his car and engaged in a gunfight with his bodyguards outside the capital Tehran on Friday, according to Iran’s defence ministry. “The nation of Iran is smarter than to fall in the trap of the conspiracy set by the Zionists. They are thinking of creating chaos, but they should know that we have read their hands and they will not succeed,” Rouhani said in televised remarks, after accusing the Jewish state of being behind the assassination. “Iran’s enemies should know, that the people of Iran and officials are braver than to leave this criminal act unanswered,” he added, talking at Iran’s weekly Covid-19 taskforce meeting. “In due time, they will answer for this crime.” The defence ministry said that Fakhrizadeh, who headed its reasearch and innovation organisation, died after medics failed to revive him. Iran’s foreign minister Mohammad Javad Zarif on Friday said that there were “serious indications of an Israeli role” in the assassination. The New York Times said an American official and two other intelligence officials confirmed Israel was behind the attack, without giving further details. “This barbaric assassination shows that our enemies are in stressful weeks, during which they feel… their pressure declining, the global situation changing,” Rouhani said, in an apparent reference to the outgoing administration of US President Donald Trump, which has forged closer than ever ties with Israel. The assassination of Fakhrizadeh comes less than two months before US President-elect Joe Biden is to take office. Biden has promised a return to diplomacy with Iran after four hawkish years under Trump, who unilaterally withdrew from the Iran nuclear deal in 2018 and re-imposed crippling sanctions as part of a “maximum pressure” campaign against Tehran. Rouhani said that Iran’s foes want to “make the maximum use … of these few weeks” in order to “create an uncertain situation in the region.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani called on Wednesday for the release of any unarmed and innocent people who were detained during protests against gasoline price hikes, after two weeks of violent protests. The protests, which began on Nov. 15 after the government abruptly raised fuel prices by as much as 300%,… December 4, 2019 In "Foreign" Iran said one of its most prominent nuclear scientists was assassinated Friday in an attack outside Tehran, blaming arch foe Israel and warning of "severe revenge". The assassination threatens to escalate tensions between Iran and the US and its close ally Israel, with some warning of the risk of a… November 28, 2020 In "Foreign" Iran's President Hassan Rouhani said mosques would reopen across large parts of the country Monday, as officials reported a drop in the number of deaths from the novel coronavirus. Health ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour said 47 people died of the virus over the past 24 hours, the lowest daily count… May 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"