Abia State Governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, has sacked the Transition Committee Chairman of Arochukwu council area, Mazi Emmanuel Kanu. The Governor also recalled the Transition Chairmen of Aba North and Aba South council areas, Chief Victor Ubani and Hon. Cherechi Nwaogu, who were suspended from office a few months ago. In a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Mr Chris Ezem, the sacked council boss was to hand over to the Deputy Transition Chairman of the Council. However, no explanation was given for the sack of Kanu who was appointed after the death of the former TC chairman, Engineer Onyekachi Okoro. “The Executive Governor of Abia State, Dr Okezie Victor Ikpeazu, has approved the immediate removal of Mazi Emmanuel Kanu, Transition Committee Chairman, Arochukwu Local Government Area. “On the other hand, the Governor has graciously approved the recall of the suspended Transition Committee Chairmen of Aba North and South Local Government Areas, Chief Victor Ubani and Honourable Cherechi Nwogu respectively,” the statement read.  Vanguard News Nigeria Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has appointed transition committee chairmen and their deputies for 17 Local Government areas of the state, pending when council elections would be held to elect those to administer the councils. June 17, 2019 In "News" By Ugochukwu Alaribe - Umuahia Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, has sacked the Commissioner for Transport, Barr. Ekele Nwaohanmuo and the Transition Committee chairman of Umunneochi council area, Mr Matthew Ibe. The Governor also suspended the General Manager of the Traffic and Indiscipline Management Agency of Abia State, TIMAAS, Mr… August 2, 2020 In "Politics" By Ugochukwu Alaribe UMUAHIA- Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu has sacked the Commissioner for Transport, Barr. Ekele Nwaohanmuo and the Transition Committee chairman of Umunneochi council area, Mr Matthew Ibe. The Governor also suspended the General Manager of the Traffic and Indiscipline Management Agency of Abia State, TIMAAS, Mr Bright Chinedu Ikokwu;… August 2, 2020 In "Politics"