According to the US embassy’s Public Affairs Section (PAS), Nigeria is not included in the six months visa bond pilot. The PAS office said that, in response to the April 2019 Presidential Memorandum on Combating High Nonimmigrant Overstay Rates, the Department of state and US embassies and Consulates overseas  conducted an in-depth analysis to identify and address root causes of overstays in the US. And among other efforts to address the challenge, it went on, the State Department is considering additional steps to address overstays, including piloting a limited visa bonds program to test. “This is in coordination with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), to ensure the operational feasibility of posting, processing, and discharging visa bonds as means to the timely departure from the United States of certain travelers. Accordingly, the State Department will begin a limited six-month visa bond pilot program beginning December 24, 2020.  We are committed to combating visa overstays and making sure travelers to the United States respect our laws. The implementation of this pilot builds on our engagement with foreign governments in recent years and will ensure continued progress to reduce overstay rates and Nigeria is not included in this six months pilot program”, PAS concluded. Vanguardngr.com By Victoria Ojeme The United States Embassy in Nigeria has clarified that Nigeria is exempted from the new $15000 visa Bond policy introduced by the outgoing administration of President Donald Trump. In statement on it's website a few hours ago, the US Embassy said Nigeria is not included in this… November 24, 2020 In "News" The United States mission in Nigeria says Nigeria is not included in the visa bond pilot programme which was issued by the outgoing President Donald Trump’s administration on Monday. November 24, 2020 In "News" The United States will temporarily require visitors from Iran, Myanmar and a number of African nations to pay up to $15,000 in visa bonds in a new hardline immigration measure enacted late in Donald Trump's presidency. The rule takes effect December 24 for a duration of six months, although it… November 26, 2020 In "Foreign"