A truck driver has been confirmed dead in a lone fatal crash at immigration junction, along Awka-Enugu expressway, Awka in Anambra State. Andrew Kumapayi, Anambra Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), who confirmed the incident in Awka, said the accident occurred at about 6: 28.p.m. on Friday Kumapayi noted that the accident was caused by loss of control due to excessive speeding by the truck driver. “The crash involved a white Mark truck without a registration number. “Eyewitness report reaching us indicates that the crash occurred as a result of loss of control due to excessive speeding by the truck driver. “A total of two male adults including the truck driver were on board when the truck crashed. ” The truck driver, identified as Mr Taiwo, got trapped in the process but was later brought out dead and deposited at the mogue at Chukwuemeka Odumegu Ojukwu University Teaching Hospital, Amaku, by FRSC rescue team. “Also on ground were Mr Peter Nwosu, Senior Special Adviser to Gov. Willie Obiano on Petroleum and Union Matters and men of the Anambra State Fire Service with their truck and chemicals to neutralize the inflammable content of the truck. “The truck has been lifted and towed off the road,” he said. While condoling with the family of the dead, Kumapayi urged motorists, especially truck drivers, to desist from excessive speeding and abide by the stipulated speed limits to avoid road traffic crashes. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria No fewer than 25 passengers including four children on Sunday narrowly escaped death in two separate auto crashes that occurred in Awka and Onitsha, Anambra. August 26, 2019 In "News" The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on Sunday confirmed that three persons died in an accident involving an articulated vehicle and a tricycle on Mgbuka-Nkpor road in Onitsha. The Anambra Sector Commander of FRSC , Andrew Kumapayi, told journalists in Awka, that the accident occurred at 1:46 p.m. Kumapayi said… January 19, 2020 In "News" A road traffic accident involving a truck around Upper-Iweka, Onitsha in Anambra has led to the death of a pedestrian. Mr Andrew Kumapayi, State Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Anambra, confirmed the incident to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Awka. Kumapayi said… March 6, 2020 In "Metro"