China, Friday joined other nations to congratulate the United States President-Elect, elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, for their victory in the U.S Presidential race that saw the defeat of President Donald Trump. Immediately after CNN, FOX News, Al Jazeera, and BBC, projected and announced Biden as winner, countries like UK, France, Germany, Saudi Arabia, Israel, India, Pakistan, Egypt, South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, South Korea, Japan and a number of others sent in goodwill messages, congratulating Biden and Harris for their victory. Some like Russia, China, Mexico, Turkey, Brazil, Hungary, Iran, North Korea and a good number of others however, refused to congratulate Biden and Harris. Four days gone and here we are with Wang Wenbin, China Foreign Ministry spokesman, congratulating Biden and Harris for being victorious in the election. “We respect the American people’s choice.” “We congratulate Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris,” said Wang Wenbin according to Washingtonpost. At the same time, Wang added, “we understand the U.S. election results will be confirmed based on U.S. law and procedure.” Vanguard News Nigeria Joe Biden's victory in the US presidential election, bringing an end to Donald Trump's four years in office, set off a flood of congratulations and reactions. Here is a selection: - Barack Obama: 'Historic and decisive' - "In this election, under circumstances never experienced, Americans turned out in numbers never… November 8, 2020 In "Foreign" By Nwafor Sunday Former Aviation Minister, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, Monday faulted the world leaders for congratulating the United States President-Elect, Joe Biden, noting that they were too quick to do so. Fani who disclosed this via his facebook handle commended the likes of Russia, China, Mexico, Turkey, Brazil, Hungary, Iran,… November 9, 2020 In "News" Political leaders from around the world were quick to congratulate Joe Biden after US networks declared him the winner of the bitter White House race over President Donald Trump. As crowds poured onto the streets of Washington and other cities in exuberant celebration and former US president Barack Obama hailed… November 7, 2020 In "Foreign"