Burkina Faso’s President Roch Marc Christian Kabore has won a second term after gaining an outright majority in the first round of elections, the country’s electoral board announced Thursday. “Mr Kabore… with 57.87 per cent of the vote, is provisionally elected president of (Burkina) Faso in the first round,” said Newton Ahmed Barry, head of the Independent National Electoral Commission (CENI). Eddie Komboigo, the candidate of a once-ruling party, came second in Sunday’s vote with 15.48 per cent of the ballot, followed by Zephirin Diabre, considered by pundits to be the best-placed opposition hopeful, with 12.46 per cent. Kabore, 63, has been under fire for his response to a five-year-old jihadist insurgency that has rolled in from Mali. But he was the favourite and by winning an overall majority in the first round he avoids a runoff vote in which he would have had to stand against a single candidate backed by a united opposition. The elections on Sunday were for Burkina’s legislature as well as its presidency, where executive power in the former French colony is concentrated. The paramount court, the Constitutional Council, has a week in which to confirm the outcome. One of the poorest countries in the world, Burkina Faso is struggling with a jihadist campaign that has claimed at least 1,200 lives since 2015 and forced around a million people to flee their homes. Opposition parties say the vote was marked by fraud and flawed procedures, threatening to reject “results stained by irregularities.” Their complaints include polling stations that either did not open or opened late, insecure handling of ballot boxes and arbitrary changes to voting areas. Because of the unrest, the election was not held across at least one-fifth of the territory, denying up to 350,000 people the right to vote, according to CENI’s figures. Pro-Kabore parties on Tuesday argued that all candidates were equally affected by the problems and that in any case these were not on a scale to have any major impact on the result. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Burkina Faso’s electoral body on Tuesday announced Mr Roch Marc Kabore as winner of the presidential election. Provisional results from Sunday's election showed Kabore won 53.5 per cent of the votes to defeat former Finance Minister Zephirin Diabre, who scored 29.7 per cent, and 12 other candidates, the electoral commission… December 1, 2015 In "News" Hundreds of thousands of voters in Burkina Faso were unable to cast ballots in Sunday's general election due to security threats, officials said, as the West African nation grapples with a growing jihadist insurgency. An undisclosed number of troops were deployed for the presidential and parliamentary polls, which are widely… November 23, 2020 In "Foreign" Burkina Faso was braced Monday for the results of its presidential election, after hundreds of thousands were unable to vote due to the country's jihadist threat. President Roch Marc Christian Kabore is widely expected to be re-elected for a second term, despite criticism from the 12 opposition candidates over his… November 24, 2020 In "Foreign"