Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta on Saturday condoled with former Leader of the Senate, Sen. Victor Ndoma-Egba and members of his family on the death of his wife, Mrs Amaka Ndoma-Egba. The governor’s condolence message is contained in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika in Asaba. Okowa noted that Mrs Ndoma-Egba reportedly died in a fatal accident near a checkpoint along Ore-Okitipupa Road in Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State on Thursday night. He said that it was heart-breaking to hear of the unexpected and devastating passing of Mrs Ndoma-Egba, noting that her death was a great loss not just to her family but to the society. Okowa urged Sen. Ndoma-Egba and family members to be consoled by the legacies his late wife left behind, saying that her contributions to the society, especially to the course of women, remained commendable. “It is with a heavy heart that I learnt of the tragic passing of Mrs Amaka Ndoma-Egba, the wife of my good friend and former Senate Leader, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba. “It is indeed heart-breaking to lose a dear one, especially a wife in such a catastrophic circumstance. “Although death is the way of all mortals and debt we must all pay, I am nonetheless consoled by the fact that Mrs Ndoma-Egba lived a worthy and exemplary life,’’ he said. According to the governor, she was known to have impacted so many lives in many ways, including her educational philanthropy. “On behalf of my family, the government and people of Delta, I condole with my dear brother, Sen. Victor Ndoma-Egba, on the passing of his beloved wife, Amaka. “It is indeed a painful loss but I urge you, distinguished Senator and the entire family to take solace in the fact that she lived a life of great accomplishments and left indelible footprints. “It is our prayer that God should grant you and the family the fortitude to bear this great loss,” Okowa said. (NAN). Vanguard News Nigeria Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta  State has commiserated with former Leader of the Senate, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba and members of his family on the tragic death of his wife, Mrs Amaka Ndoma-Egba. Mrs Ndoma-Egba reportedly died in a fatal accident near a military checkpoint along Ore-Okitipupa Road in Odigbo… November 21, 2020 In "News" By Festus Ahon IMMEDIATE past Executive Director, Projects of the Niger Delta Development Commission NDDC, Engr Samuel Adjogbe,  has condoled with former Senate Leader and Chairman of NDDC, Sen. Victor Ndola-Egba over the demise of his wife, Amaka. The deceased was reported to have been involved in a ghastly motor… November 21, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with Sen. Victor Ndoma-Egba and members of his family on the sudden and tragic death of his wife, Mrs Amaka Ndoma-Egba. The president’s condolence message is contained in a statement released by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on… November 20, 2020 In "News"