Nollywoood actress and Television personality, Rita Edochie’s undying support for American president, Donald Trump, may make her lose her fan base, if latest comments on her Instagram page, is anything to go by. The United States of America is currently conducting an election, and incumbent president, Donald Trump is running against Democrat, Joe Biden, and Rita Edochie has not hidden her desire to see Trump win. In a recent Instagram post, she said “Trump, it is not over yet. God Almighty has not said it is over…let’s go there Trump”. However, some of her fans didn’t agree with her. These are some of the reactions from fans. @sir_mich21 wrote: “Mummy, I used to have respect for you but recently you have continued to disappoint me. What’s your business with US election? We have our problems already”. @Miss_neche: “You think American is Nigeria where they bribe all you celebrities with money to blindly support rubbish? I don’t know why your children don’t call you to order? Make I even unfollow you”. She however got some fans supporting and defending her. This is one of such fans.. @Nwabulo_omee_na_oba: All these insults are for who? In life you have to chose someone you support. That’s why we have different parties and opposition..please make una free her; what you like must not be what she likes bikonu”(Please let her be! What you like must not be what she likes). Vanguard Give Donald Trump a chance, incoming first daughter Ivanka is asking fellow Americans as her father readies to be sworn in as president of a sharply divided country on Friday. January 20, 2017 In "News" By Rasheed Sobowale American rapper, Cardi B who visited Nigeria last year (2019), December has attacked the actions of the United States President, Donald Trump and said; "I’m filing for my Nigerian citizenship". Cardi B on her Twitter account posted, "Naaaaa these memes are f**kin but shit ain’t no joke!… January 4, 2020 In "Entertainment" Donald Trump has claimed former First Lady Michelle Obama loved disgraced film producer Harvey Weinstein. The President of the United States hit out over Mrs Obama’s friendship with rapist mogul at a press conference in India Tuesday, saying: ‘I was never a fan of Harvey… ‘He was a person I… February 25, 2020 In "Foreign"