China declined Monday to congratulate Joe Biden as the winner of the US presidential election, saying the outcome of the vote was still to be determined. While incumbent Donald Trump has yet to concede and has launched several legal challenges, many world leaders congratulated Biden and running mate Kamala Harris after the Democrats were declared winners at the weekend and spontaneous celebrations erupted across American cities. Trump’s four years in the White House have been marked by a costly trade war and increasingly icy relations with China, with the two powers sparring over areas from blame for the Covid-19 pandemic to Beijing’s human rights record in Xinjiang and Hong Kong. China — among a handful of major countries including Russia and Mexico that has not congratulated the President-Elect — said Monday it had “noticed that Mr Biden declared he is the winner of the election.” “Our understanding is that the outcome of the election will be determined in accordance with US laws and procedures,” foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told press at a regular briefing. After declining to acknowledge Biden’s victory despite repeated questions from reporters, Wang said: “We hope the new US government can meet China halfway.” Trump has refused to concede defeat, complaining in a tweet on Sunday, “Since when does the Lamestream Media call who our next president will be?” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Russian President, Vladimir Putin awaiting official result to congratulate United States Presidential election winner according to a statement from Kremlin. However, Russia's elections chief said Monday that voting by mail in the US presidential election had paved the way for massive voter fraud, echoing rhetoric from the campaign of Donald… November 9, 2020 In "Foreign" Political leaders from around the world were quick to congratulate Joe Biden after US networks declared him the winner of the bitter White House race over President Donald Trump. As crowds poured onto the streets of Washington and other cities in exuberant celebration and former US president Barack Obama hailed… November 7, 2020 In "Foreign" A political pressure group, Tinubu Solidarity Vanguard, has commended the American people and government on the recent victory of Mr Joe Biden in the presidential election, describing it as “a breath of fresh air.” Dr Johnny Ben, the Director-General of the group in a statement on Monday said that Biden’s victory at the… November 9, 2020 In "News"