A faulty 60MVA at Kubwa station in Abuja has thrown many towns in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, into darkness. The development has forced the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company, AEDC, to embark on load-shedding with Kubwa and its environs. Management of AEDC in a statement explained that the faulty transformer was responsible for the load-shedding experienced by its customers in some towns within the FCT. The company named the locations which include, Kubwa, Dei-Dei, Lower Usman Dam, Bwari, Dutse, Dawaki, 3rd Avenue, 69 Road, 64 Road, 62 Road, Gwarinpa, Sunshine Estate, Map Global Estate, I pent Estate, Queens Estate. Kafe Gardens 1, 2&3. Efab Estate, Home Security Estate, Fine Estate, Macopoli Estate, Marine Estate, Adkan Estate, Verozone Estate, Justice Estate, Davis Estate and Police Estate. AEDC said the load-shedding was occasioned by the fault on one of the 60MVA transformers at the TCN 2 x 60MVA station at Kubwa, Abuja. While acknowledging that the TCN enforced load-shedding has the potential of disrupting the socio-economic activities of its customers as well as its own obligations towards the market, AEDC said it is working with the TCN on how to speedily resolve the issue especially because of the onset of the dry season, which it says will have serious effects on the comfort of the customers. AEDC, therefore, appeals to all affected customers to please bear with it is working assiduously with the TCN to ensure the restoration of normal power supply to the affected customers. Vanguard The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), says some electricity supply feeders from Kukwaba transmission station supplying power to some communities will experience load shedding, pending replacement of the faulty breaker in the station. May 4, 2019 In "News" The sufferings and hardship currently witnessed by Nigerians across the country took a turn for the worse in Abuja in the last couple of days as Abuja Electricity Distribution Company‎ reduced power supply to the Federal Capital Territory and neighbouring states to an average of six hours. December 1, 2015 In "News" ABUJA — The hardship currently witnessed by Nigerians across the country took a turn for the worse in Abuja in the last couple of days as Abuja Electricity Distribution Company reduced power supply to the Federal Capital Territory and neighbouring states to an average of six hours a day. December 2, 2015 In "News"