Britain will ban the sale of new petrol and diesel cars and vans from 2030, five years earlier than previously planned, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Wednesday. This is part of what Johnson is casting as a “green revolution” to cut emissions to net zero by 2050. Johnson, who is grappling with Europe’s most deadly COVID-19 crisis, Brexit trade negotiations and the departure of his most senior adviser, wants to underscore his green credentials as part of what he hopes will be a reset for his government. “Now is the time to plan for a green recovery with high-skilled jobs that give people the satisfaction of knowing they are helping to make the country cleaner, greener and more beautiful,” Johnson said in a column published in the Financial Times. Britain in 2019 became the first G7 country to set in law a net zero emission target by 2050, which will require wholesale changes in the way Britons travel, use energy and eat. In total the plan would mobilise 12 billion pounds (16 billion dollars) of government money, with as much as three times that amount coming from the private sector, and create and support 250,000 highly skilled green jobs by 2030, Johnson said. The new date for a ban on new petrol and diesel cars is five years earlier than the 2035 pledge made by Johnson in February. The plan offers 582 million pounds in grants for those buying zero or ultra-low emission vehicles to make them cheaper to buy, which was welcomed by auto industry group SMMT. “Success will depend on reassuring consumers that they can afford these new technologies,” SMMT said in a statement, adding the new deadline posed an “immense challenge” to the sector. Johnson’s plan was broadly welcomed by industry. “It gives a springboard to the huge opportunities for UK-wide investment and green jobs that a true low-carbon economy can bring,” said Josh Hardie, acting Director at the Confederation of British Industry. Under the plan, the sale of hybrid cars and vans will be banned from 2035. An extra 200 million pounds would create industrial clusters mustering technology to capture, store and use carbon dioxide emissions by the mid-2020s. Another two hubs are projected by 2030, taking the total investment in the technology to one billion pounds. Johnson, who has promised to increase Britain’s offshore wind power to 40 gigawatts by 2030 from around 10 GW now, pledged up to 500 million pounds for projects trailing the use of hydrogen including for home heating and cooking. The government also pledged 525 million pounds to develop large- and small-scale nuclear plants. (Reuters/NAN) [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, has said that cars powered by diesel and petrol will not be sold in the country by 2030. This decision according to BBC is part of what Johnson calls a "green industrial revolution" to tackle climate change and create jobs in industries such as nuclear… November 18, 2020 In "News" Britain will ban the sale of new petrol and diesel-powered cars from 2040 as part of a plan to get them off the roads altogether 10 years later, Environment Minister Michael Gove said on Wednesday. It follows a similar announcement earlier this month by the French government, while German cities… July 26, 2017 In "News" FROM the phone or laptop you are reading this on, to the car you drive, the clothes you wear or the food you eat, most of the goods you use have travelled across the seas. August 14, 2019 In "Maritime Report"