Former Senator representing Plateau South in the National Assembly, Jeremiah Useni has cautioned against the move to regulate the Social Media in Nigeria saying those seeking the regulation must exercise restraint so that they don’t allow selfish reasons to becloud their judgment. Useni, a former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, noted those in authority should be more concerned about transforming governance to positively impact on the lives of ordinary citizens rather than being obsessed with the regulation of the social media. Speaking in Jos at the inaugural lecture of the Correspondents’ Chapel of Nigeria Union of Journalists, titled “Insecurity and the quest for lasting peace in Nigeria: The role of the media”, he stressed that censoring the social media would have negative impact on the traditional media and journalists in the country as it would deny civil society and the public the opportunity to demand accountability and good governance from the constituted authority. Represented at the event by his Media Consultant, Yiljap Abraham, he said Instead of regulating the social media, why not the authorities transform governance to make impact in the lives of citizens? The social media platforms are already self regulated by conditions that the news, conversations or dialogue taking place through the platform are monitored and controlled as defined guidelines by their various administrators. “The danger of this move is when any regulatory agency becomes captured by the people it is supposed to regulate. For instance, a situation where an agency that is supposed to regulate social media is captured by politicians and activists who might want to use their position to suppress the arguments of their political opponents. “While I do not condone the act of dissemination of fake news, but I also frown at the attempt to hide under fake news to regulate the social media for selfish reasons.” Vanguard Gubernatorial candidate of the People's Democratic Party, PDP, Senator Jeremiah Useni was on Saturday night absent at the Plateau Gubernatorial Debate organized by Plateau Debate Group for candidates from different political parties contesting in the March, 2nd, 2019 governorship election. February 4, 2019 In "News" The Plateau State Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP in the last election, Senator Jeremiah Useni has again reiterated the need for Nigerians irrespective of their type of job to engage in farming activities so that the tide of prevailing hunger in the nation can be curbed. December 21, 2019 In "News" By Marie-Therese Nanlong, Jos Stakeholders in Nigeria have been urged to intensify efforts to redeem the country from anarchy and safeguard the unity of the nation for the good of all. The call came on the heels of the nationwide looting and vandalization of public and private property by miscreants… October 26, 2020 In "News"