China’s imports grew 4.7 per cent and exports rose by 11.4 per cent year-on-year as its economy continued to recover from the coronavirus pandemic, according to October customs data released on Saturday. China has largely managed to control the virus after a disastrous start to the year that saw Beijing lock down tens of millions of people and the economy contract 6.8 per cent in the first quarter. The new figures from China’s General Administration are the latest sign of China’s economic recovery as consumption returns to normal levels. The recovery was made possible by an aggressive containment of the virus’s spread through mass testing, movement tracking and entry bans. Chinese manufacturers have been buoyed by global demand for medical goods and consumer electronics to help with lockdown and self-isolation. In October, the Caixin manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index hit its highest level in nearly a decade. China saw a boost in trade with the United States in October as well even as a resurgence in the number of virus cases is expected to dampen the US economic recovery. Exports to the US rose 22.5 per cent year-on-year in October, while imports grew 32.9 per cent, according to customs data. Trade with the European Union, where lockdown measures are returning, fell in October with exports contracting 7 per cent year-on-year and imports only growing a modest 8.4 per cent. The total volume of China’s imports and exports stood at just under 416 billion dollars for October, a slight decrease of 6 per cent compared to September. DPA Vanguard News Nigeria China's economy powered ahead in the third quarter, data showed Monday, building on a strong recovery from painful coronavirus lockdowns, while the country's crucial army of consumers picked up their spending last month as they grow more confident. However, the expansion fell short of forecasts and officials warned of uncertainty… October 19, 2020 In "Foreign" China saw forecast-beating economic growth in the second quarter after a record contraction in the previous three months, as businesses cautiously returned to normality after strict lockdowns across the country. The figures released Thursday follow a string of data showing the world's number two economy slowly emerging from the outbreak,… July 16, 2020 In "Foreign" Oil prices rose on Monday as China’s plans to ship in large volumes of U.S. crude in August and September outweighed concerns over a slowdown in demand recovery after the coronavirus pandemic and an uptick in supplies. August 17, 2020 In "News"