Nigerians and other nationals (United Kingdom, Belgium, Luxembourg, Philippines, among others) have been suspended from entering China. The Embassy of China and Consulate in Nigeria announced this in a public notice on Thursday, adding that it will no longer issue certified health declaration form for non-Chinese nationals in the country. However, holders of diplomatic passports, courtesy or C-visas would not be affected by the regulation. The notice stated that the suspension was due to an evaluation of COVID-19 pandemic in the said countries. The statement, entitled ‘Notice of temporary suspension of entry into China by non-Chinese nationals in Nigeria holding valid Chinese visas or residence permits,’ added that “Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, China has decided to temporarily suspend entry into China by non-Chinese nationals in Nigeria holding visas or residence permits still valid at the time of this announcement.” It added that the Chinese Embassy and Consulate in Nigeria will no longer issue a certified health declaration form for Nigerians. Also, foreign nationals visiting on emergency have to apply at the Chinese Embassy or Consulate and those issued visas after November 3 are exempted. VANGUARD The Chinese Foreign Ministry and the National Immigration Administration has issued new guidelines in view of the COVID-19 situation to ensure epidemic prevention and control. The Embassy of China in Nigeria disclosed this in a statement on its Facebook page on Friday. According to the Embassy, the adjustments were on… September 26, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has on Wednesday, banned travelers from China, Italy, Iran, South Korea, Spain, Japan, France, Germany, Norway, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Netherlands and Switzerland from entering the country, noting that it is part of its measures to stem the spread of coronavirus. March 18, 2020 In "Health" By Omeiza Ajayi As part of measures to stem the spread of the Coronavirus in the country, the Federal Government has announced the restriction of entry for travellers from 13 Countries that have recorded at least 1,000 domestic cases of the pandemic. Chairman of the Presidential Taskforce on Covid-19 and… March 18, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"