Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, Saturday dissolved all Boards and Commissions in the State. This is part of the move by the present administration to accommodate the interest of key stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the rulership of the State. In a statement by Dr. Ugbala Kenneth Igwe, the Secretary to the State Government/Coordinating Commissioner, the affected officials were directed to hand over all government property in their possession before the close of work, on Monday 23rd November 2020. The statement read: “In the effort of Ebonyi State Government to reposition the Government, promote inclusiveness and enhance service delivery, His Excellency, the Governor of Ebonyi State, Engr Dr David Nweze Umahi, FNSE, FNATE, has approved the immediate dissolution of all Boards and Commissions that are not tenured by law. “Sequel to this, all the former officials affected by this announcement are directed to hand over all government property in their possession to the  Secretary to the State Government and Coordinating commissioner before the close of work on Monday 23rd November 2020. “Please, adhere strictly to this directive.” Saturday Vanguard reliably gathered that the Governor might in no distant time dissolve his cabinet. Vanguard News Nigeria An All Progressives Congress (APC) Chieftain, Mr Osita Okechukwu, has hailed the defection of Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the party, describing it as a welcome development. Okechukwu, in a statement issued in Abuja on Wednesday, said that the governor had made a… November 18, 2020 In "News" By Peter Okutu, Abakaliki Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, Friday sacked all the political office holders from the Local Government Area of the first executive Governor and Senator representing Ebonyi North senatorial zone of the State, Dr Sam Egwu. Even as many believed that the sack of the officeholders… November 21, 2020 In "News" …Why we won't join Umahi in APC —Ebonyi NASS caucus …PDP 'll cease to exist in Ebonyi today —Umahi …Two camps emerge in Ebonyi PDP, NWC appoints  Udogu caretaker chair …We 'll challenge NWC's decision in court, dissolved PDP  exco chair …Expect all Ebonyi NASS members in APC, Chinedu Ogah… November 19, 2020 In "News"