AS part of the recovery process and building public confidence after the #EndSARS protests and the near breakdown of law and order, the police in Edo Wednesday paraded 18 persons who escaped from the two correctional centres in Benin City, 14 suspected armed robbers and 16 suspected cultists who have been part of the killings across Benin City. Addressing journalists at the state command of the police headquarters, Commissioner of Police, Johnson Kokumo said most of the escapee prisoners were re-arrested while committing other crimes, while two were re-arrested in Ondo state and another in Lagos State. He said some of the suspected robbers were among the robbery gangs that have been terrorizing residents in Benin City. He said despite the outcome of the #EndSARS protests that led to the destruction of several police stations and cart away arms and ammunition, “we are not folding our arms and watch the hoodlums have a field day. Our main concern now is geared towards re-arresting the escapees and recovering the looted and other illicit arms and ammunition in circulation. “To this end, the police and other security agencies in conjunction with the State Government put machineries in place to checkmate the activities of these rampaging hoodlums, which have yielded some positive results.” He said among the suspects, were those who went destroyed the Oba Market police station and carted away its arms and ammunition. Kokumo said the exhibits recovered were two AK 47 rifles; four locally made guns, one Toyota Yaris Saloon car with Reg No. UBJ-447-SZ, one Toyota Highlander SUV Reg. No. DGE-524-AH and 21 live cartridges He assured of adequate security during the Yuletide saying “as we approach the yuletide season, the Police will not rest on its oars until all the arms and ammunition carted away by the hoodlums are recovered and escapees are equally rearrested. The criminal elements themselves will not know peace.” Vanguard News Nigeria As Robbers, cultists, hoodlums run riot 37 killed in Edo in one week, 6 in Delta in 4 days, one in Ilorin Police raid black spots, arrest 720 suspects, recover arms, drugs, looted items in Lagos, call for information to recover looted arms, ammunition in Edo Gunmen break into Kaduna… November 16, 2020 In "News" The security situation in Benin, the Edo capital, has taken a turn for the worse following a jump in cases of kidnapping, armed robbery and cult-related killings, NAN checks have revealed. The upsurge in the crimes was first noticed since the #ENDSARS protests that led to the release of no… November 16, 2020 In "News" ***Police call for information to recover looted arms, ammunition By Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City There is continued fear among residents in several parts of Benin City as cult-related killings linked to clashes between members of the Vikings and Aye confraternities have continued with the latest being the killing of… November 15, 2020 In "Metro"