The U.S. presidential election is “not over,” President Donald Trump’s campaign team lawyer Matt Morgan said on Friday, after Democratic candidate Joe Biden gained the lead in ongoing vote counts in Pennsylvania and Georgia. “This election is not over,” Morgan said. “The false protection of Joe Biden as the winner is based on results in four states that are far from final.” State officials in Georgia and Pennsylvania earlier on Friday reported data showing that Biden has gained the lead over Trump in ongoing vote counts in both states. “Georgia is heading for a recount, where we are confident we will find ballots improperly harvested,” Morgan said, while alleging that Pennsylvania had seen “many irregularities.” Morgan also disputed the decision of two major media outlets to call the state of Nevada for Biden, saying that there appear to be thousands of improper mail ballots. Fox News and the Associated Press have called the state for Biden, while other major media outlets have not yet made a projection on who will win the state. Morgan called the projections for Biden “irresponsible,” adding that Trump is on course to win this state. “Biden is relying on these states for his phony claim on the White House, but once the election is final, President Trump will be re-elected,” he said. As of Friday morning, Biden had secured 264 of 270 electoral votes needed to win, compared to Trump’s 214 votes, according to the Fox News and AP projections. CNN and others have put the total electoral vote count at 253-213, in favoUr of Biden. A victory in Pennsylvania, which carries 20 electoral votes, would make Biden the winner by all counts. Vanguard News Nigeria Democratic candidate Joe Biden has taken the lead in the U.S states of Pennsylvania and Georgia, two of the final states still in play in the presidential election. Biden has overhauled what was a substantial lead for President Donald Trump in Pennsylvania, and on Friday he pulled slightly ahead as… November 6, 2020 In "Foreign" President Donald Trump erupted in a tirade of unsubstantiated claims that he has been cheated out of winning the US election as vote counting across battleground states early Friday showed Democrat Joe Biden steadily closing in on victory. "They are trying to steal the election," an increasingly isolated Trump said… November 6, 2020 In "News" Democrat Joe Biden said Wednesday he was confident of winning the presidency once all votes are counted, saying he was leading Donald Trump in the remaining swing states that will determine the election's outcome. With results from Tuesday's election showing Biden steadily nearing the threshold necessary to win the White… November 5, 2020 In "Foreign"