The Countdown is on to the 7th edition of the Annual African Muzik Magazine Awards and Music Festival (AFRIMMA). AFRIMMA is the biggest African music award ceremony in diaspora that creates a platform to promote the diversity of African music. Every year, top African talents across the world come on the same stage to celebrate African culture and music. African music keeps getting bigger all over the world and African music berths new stars by the day. In a statement by the organizers, this year’s AFRIMMA will be a virtual ceremony as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic means congregation is not possible. This year, the theme of the awards show is ‘Destination Africa’, according to the President/CEO of AFRIMMA Anderson Obiagwu, “We are taking you on a music journey into the sounds of Africa, the beauty of African music lies in the diversity and the AFRIMMA virtual awards would be a showcase event”. Destination Africa is going to explore the different regions in Africa, and it promises to be an epoch ceremony with superstar performers lined up. Some of the acts billed to perform at AFRIMMA 2020 include Fally Ipupa, Diamond Platnumz, Davido, Nadia Mukami, Soraia Ramos just to mention a few. This year’s nominees list features a raft of established talents but also stars a host of new talents in what seems to be a major paradigm shift on the African music scene. Revered names like Burna Boy, Diamond Platnumz, Aya Nakamura, Soraia Ramos, Davido, Master KG all earned nominations while newbies like Oxlade, J Derobie, Zeynab and so on got their first AFRIMMA nominations. It promises to be a lot of fun and excitement on Destination Africa with AFRIMMA 2020. The virtual ceremony kicks off at 1pm CST on November 15th, 2020 and would be transmitted via African Muzik Magazine Youtube page. The African Muzik Magazine Awards AFRIMMA has unlocked a new level with the announcement of its first Virtual Awards show. This event is sponsored by Majority Official and Axxess with performances coming from different artists around the world. Anticipation is high and excitement hit the rooftop with the release of the nominees list. This is about to be an experience of a lifetime as AFRIMMA takes us on a journey of African music and sounds with Destination Africa. vanguardngr.com The AFRIMMA 2019 Award & Music Festival nominees list throws up a mix of incumbent stars who have continued to advance their career and youngsters who have barged through to earn their breakthrough. August 16, 2019 In "Entertainment" Nigerian artistes topped the list of the 2nd edition of the African Muzik Magazine Awards (AFRIMMA) scheduled for Dallas in October. August 4, 2015 In "Music" Saturday, October 10 will not be forgotten in a hurry as it was the day, African artistes shut down the beautiful city of Dallas, Texas, United States for this year's Diasporan African Music Magazine Awards, AFRIMMA, which held at the historic Black Academy of Arts and Letters. November 5, 2015 In "Entertainment"