Edinson Cavani’s joy at scoring twice for Manchester United on Sunday could be dampened as he is to be investigated by the Football Association over a social media post he subsequently deleted. The 33-year-old Uruguayan striker sent an Instagram post including the Spanish word “negrito” (‘black’) in reply to a message of congratulations after his brace completed a come-from-behind 3-2 win over Southampton. United said the word was clearly used in an affectionate manner and has different connotations in South America. The club said the former Paris Saint Germain forward had been informed such terms are viewed as derogatory in Britain and he subsequently deleted the post. The FA issued guidelines pre-season clamping down on racist and discriminatory language and behaviour, with offences on social media carrying a minimum three-game ban. Manchester City’s Bernardo Silva and Dele Alli of Tottenham were both suspended for one match last season after posts that breached the guidelines. Vanguard News Nigeria Edinson Cavani claims he received plenty of offers before accepting the chance to join an "incredible" club in Manchester United. The 33-year-old striker, who left Paris Saint-Germain when his contract expired in June, completed a deadline-day move to United on a one-year deal with the option of a second. The Uruguayan was one… October 10, 2020 In "Sports" Uruguayan striker Edinson Cavani's desire to leave Paris Saint-Germain has stoked the interest of Chelsea manager Frank Lampard, who has bemoaned his players' lack of clinical finishing. Tammy Abraham has scored 16 goals in all competitions this season but Lampard is aware that he needs support. The 1-0 defeat by… January 20, 2020 In "Sports" Edinson Cavani had coronavirus and thought about quitting football before signing with Manchester United. Veteran striker Cavani and his girlfriend tested positive for COVID-19 following a holiday that saw them join former Paris Saint-Germain team-mates in Ibiza, a trip that also saw Neymar, Angel Di Maria, Leandro Paredes, Mauro Icardi, Keylor… October 6, 2020 In "News"