Nigeria’s active rig count witnessed a downward movement with a 30 percent dip to seven in October, 2020 from 10 recorded in September. The rig count is a reflection of the level of exploration, development, production and general activities taking place in the upstream petroleum sector. This shortfall is coming at a time the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, also witnessed a significant drop in its rig count to 325 in October against 363 recorded in September, according to the latest OPEC monthly oil market report. However, world rig count recorded a slight shortfall of two, dropping to 1,135 in the latest count, as against 1,137 recorded the previous month. Meanwhile, stakeholders at the Nigerian Association of Petroleum Explorationists, NAPE, warned that the continued reduction in oil and gas exploration activities in Nigeria would have huge consequences for the country. According to Lukman Otunuga, Senior Research Analyst at FXTM, “Nigeria is at risk of long-term disruption to oil and gas supplies, power generation, a collapse of industries and significant loss of revenue due to continued reduction in hydrocarbon exploration activities. “Reduction in hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation has dire consequences for a country like Nigeria with a mono-economy hinged on crude oil.” “With Oil prices capped by demand-side factor, the International Monetary Fund’s 2020 growth forecast of -4.3 percent could become reality. “Outside of Nigeria, the most important risk event that remains relevant to the country is the upcoming OPEC+ Joint Ministerial Committee meeting. While OPEC+ is unlikely to make any major decisions, the meeting may provide plenty of noise which could translate to price volatility. “One thing to keep in mind is that Nigeria oil production has fallen sharply due to ongoing OPEC+ output cuts. The latest figures from the cartel confirm that Nigeria is sticking to supply cut agreements by keeping oil production below 1.5 million barrels per day in September. “Given how oil sales account for a handsome chunk of export earnings and government revenues, this development is likely to compound the country’s woes,” Otunuga stated. Vanguard News Nigeria Nigeria’s rig count —  a standard yardstick used in measuring a nation’s activeness in exploration and production of crude oil and gas —  for the month of October, 2018 increased to 34 from 33 recorded in the previous month, data from the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, have showed. November 21, 2018 In "Business" NIGERIA took a two-rig leap as its rig count rose to 17 in September, as against 15 recorded in August. This is coming at a time the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, took a five-rig leap, having recorded 585 in September, as against 580 recorded the previous month, according the… November 5, 2019 In "Energy" Nigeria’s rig count declined by three last December, 2019, having recorded 17 as against 20 recorded in November, at a time the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, had an impressive plus 12, while world rig count increased by one, latest data from OPEC shows. February 4, 2020 In "Sweet Crude"