By Godfrey Bivbere and Providence Adeyinka Three days after Vanguard’s exclusive report of the presence of a 20-foot container of substance suspected to be toxic waste, the offensive container is still at the Berger Suya area of Apapa, Lagos, where it was abandoned by unknown persons. The government’s regulatory agency in charge of toxic waste, the National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency, NESREA, is yet to move the container from the area despite the risk for residents. Efforts to reach the Public Relations Officer of NESREA, Amaka Ejiofor, proved abortive as she neither picked her call nor responded to a text message sent to her. However, a source in NESREA told Vanguard that the test result should be ready by tomorrow (Friday). Speaking with Vanguard on the issue, immediate past President of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders, NAGAFF, Eugene Nweke, said he is not surprised since it is cheaper for international corporations to ship such cargo to countries like Nigeria. Nweke noted that companies from some Asian countries are fund of shipping such consignments to less-developed countries. According to him, “It is cheaper to ship and abandon industrial chemical (toxic) wastes to Nigeria ports than go through the rigour of international practices/procedures with regards to treatment and handling of industrial wastes or gas flaring, which poses a great danger to our environment and ecology. “Again, the essence of International Cargo Tracking Note or a Container Security Initiatives program cannot be overemphasised. One big question, “Is NESRA still functional?” he queried. Recall that the shipping company, CMA CGM and the three Customs Commands in Lagos have distanced themselves from the controversial container, instead raising questions on how that consignment got to where it is. A CMA CGM official had told Vanguard that: “That the container is CMA CGM branded does not mean we cleared it into the country. “Go to Customs for any clarification. They collect duty and clear container at the port; they are in charge of anything coming into the country.” VANGUARD Following Vanguard’s exclusive report about the container-load of suspected toxic waste abandoned in Lagos, the shipping company that has its name written on the container, CMA CGM Nigeria Shipping Limited, and the three Customs Commands in Lagos have distanced themselves from the abandoned waste. November 4, 2020 In "Business" By Godfrey Bivbere & Providence Emmanuel A 20 foot container suspected to contain toxic waste has been abandoned at Berger Suya bus stop, along the Cocoanut – Mile2 end (close to the pedestrian bridge) of the Oshodi/Apapa expressway. The specialised container with number TLLU 2813171is loaded with already rusting drums… November 3, 2020 In "News" Contrary to reports, the controversial vessel MV VeraD, is still being detained at the Tin-Can Port, Apapa, Lagos. The vessel is suspected to be carrying three containers laden with toxic materials. It was seized 15 days ago. October 28, 2010 In "Business"