The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has said he never ordered the military to kill Igbos in Oyibo Local Government Area of the state, describing the allegation as balderdash and politically motivated. The governor stated that the curfew imposed on Oyigbo was to restore calm in the area after members of proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, killed 6 soldiers, 4 policemen and destroyed all police stations and court buildings in the area. Wike gave the explanation on a live television programme in Port Harcourt on Monday. The governor said the narrative that Igbos were being killed by the military is intended to shift attention from the despicable activities of IPOB in Oyigbo, which is a boundary area adjoining Abia State. He said: “I know that this is not the first time, IPOB  has used Oyigbo as launching ground. The security agencies are aware. IPOB added a new dimension this time. They killed 6 Army Officers and burnt one.  They killed four Police Officers. They destroyed all the Police Stations and Court Buildings. What offence did we commit as a state? “I imposed a curfew to restore calm. I proscribed IPOB activities anywhere in the state. Don’t forget that the Federal Government had declared them a terrorist group. It is not the entire Igbos that believes in IPOB activities. “So, it’s not true that I order the military to kill Igbos in Oyigbo. When did I become a friend to the military? So what about the Igbos living elsewhere in the state are they also being killed?” He further said: “I have no relationship with the Army or the Police, I do not command them. They change Commissioner of Police every time. How will I begin to direct the Army that I do not give instruction?” Governor bemoaned IPOB’s effrontery to rename a local government in the State and hoist its flag in a public school in Komkom Town. He said: “I will not fold my arms and watch criminals destroy my state, if those few criminals are Igbos then they should know that I will not allow them. They made attempt to rename a local government in my state. That alone is a signal. I will not agree to that. I know who is doing all these; who has told them to rise, protest against Wike.” The Governor stated that the State government has no regret against its stance on IPOB, already designated as a terrorist organisation by the Federal Government. According to him, even the South-East Governors have never supported IPOB and wondered why a Governor from the Niger Delta should tolerate the group. He revealed that security agencies during their search of some residents in Oyigbo saw shrines with IPOB flags and Nnamdi Kanu’s picture. He maintained that if IPOB is allowed to operate from Oyigbo, they will soon overrun the State. The Governor said the government has commenced moves to replace all the property destroyed by the group during the protest, regretting that the damage has left a huge financial burden on the state. In addition, he said the State has decided to compensate each family of the killed security personnel with 20 million Naira to cater to for the welfare of the bereaved widows and their children. He further said that the EndSARS protest and its aftermath would have been averted if the Federal Government had not dismissed the alarmed he earlier raised on the activities of SARS to mere politics. Vanguard ...Furious gov goes after Igbo proscribed group, local collaborators with bounty ...Inside story of the Oyigbo attack that killed security agents ...Residents allege police, soldiers siege amid manhunt for assailants By Egufe Yafugborhi Before Wednesday, October 21 wave of violence that left three police stations, an Area Command and a… November 1, 2020 In "News" Members of the Rivers State caucus of the National Assembly have affirmed their support for measures taken by Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, to rein in the Indigenous Peoples Organization of Biafra (IPOB) in the State. The lawmakers said they unconditionally stand with Governor Wike on every actions he has taken… October 31, 2020 In "News" By Egufe Yafugborhi GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike on Wednesday declared a N20Million compensation for each family of policemen and soldiers killed in Rivers state’s recent violent attacks linked to the Independent People of Biafra (IPOB) The Governor also assured on rebuilding all police stations burnt by the proscribed IPOB in Oyigbo… October 28, 2020 In "News"