Bayern Munich defender Jerome Boateng wants to start contract extension talks with the European champions his agent said on Wednesday amid uncertainty surrounding the future of fellow centre-back David Alaba. Boateng, 32, a 2014 World Cup winner, is out of contract in June. “We are open to contract talks and would be delighted to have them with Bayern,” Boateng’s representative Damir Smoljan told Sport1. “Jerome feels unbelievably well here and the team is incredibly focused and professional.” Boateng joined Bayern in 2011 and has won eight Bundesliga titles. He was also a key member of the Bayern team which won Champions League titles in 2013 and last August. The timing of his agent’s comments come days after Bayern revealed a stalemate with Alaba, 28, who also has only seven months left on his current deal. Boateng also underlined his form on Tuesday with his first Champions League goal for five years before saying the Bavarian squad are all behind Alaba. Along with fellow stars Mats Hummels and Thomas Mueller, Boateng was told in March 2019 by Germany coach Joachim Loew his international career was over. However, the trio’s current form has led to calls to reinstate them for next June’s postponed Euro 2020. Bayern coach Hansi Flick said senior club bosses “are all glad” to see Boateng in such eye-catching form. Flick praised Boateng’s “very good” performance in Salzburg as his goal “paved the way” to victory. Bayern lost Thiago Alcantara to Liverpool in September and Alaba, who has reportedly demanded a huge pay rise, looks set to leave in the coming months. The league leaders have made no secret, like all top-flight clubs in Germany, their finances have been badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Players have to become more understanding. We have insane financial losses and haven’t had a spectator in the stadium for eight months,” chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge told Sport Bild. VANGUARD Jerome Boateng on Sunday praised the form of "world-class" Alphonso Davies and said treble-chasing Bayern Munich must stay focused in the wake of their Champions League demolition of Barcelona when they play Lyon in the semi-finals. August 16, 2020 In "Sports" Bayern Munich's Germany defender Jerome Boateng turned down an offer to join Barcelona before the start of the current season, he has revealed. March 4, 2015 In "Sports" A German court has decided that Bayern Munich's veteran defender Jerome Boateng will face charges of domestic violence, a spokesman confirmed on Monday. The Munich court ruled that the former international can stand trial on a charge of "slight, intentional bodily injuries", court spokesman Klaus-Peter Juengst told AFP subsidiary SID.… December 23, 2019 In "News"