The National Salaries and Wages Commission (NSWC), the federal government agency that determines salaries and allowances of its workers, has commenced the review of salaries and allowances of the nation’s police personnel. A Top official of the commission disclosed this to Vanguard, Saturday. According to him, the review followed a directive to that effect by the Presidency. “We are now working on the directive from the Presidency,” the top official said, in response to an inquiry. #EndSARS protesters had listed the improvement in the welfare of police personnel as one of their five demands. The demand for the welfare of police personnel was included in the demands by the protesters on the understanding that their salaries, allowances and general welfare could not support effective service delivery. There have been arguments about whether or not police personnel receive fewer salaries than other law enforcement agents. However, non-payment of allowances due to them has been identified as a major challenge of police officers. For instance, there have been complaints that when they are sent on Special Duties across states, they don’t receive the allowances and are not properly accommodated. They are also either not provided accommodation in barracks or in live barracks that are not habitable. Even though their uniforms and kits are supposed to be provided by the police authorities, the opposite is the reality. Police personnel are, therefore, often demoralised because of the neglect and the fact that they don’t have the necessary equipment and weapons to carry out their duties. Vanguard …Your voice has been heard, stop the protests, Buhari tells youths …To world leaders: Get your facts right before taking position …One dead as Army repels jailbreak in Warri Prison …Gunfire as Ikoyi Prison comes under attack …Protesters break into Okitipupa prison, free 58 inmates …Police station, LG office, Akeredolu's… October 23, 2020 In "Headlines" Sporadic gunshots rent the air in  Maiduguri, the Borno State capital yesterday as hundreds of mobile policemen deployed to the state to assist the military in the fight against Boko Haram took to the streets protesting non-payment of seven months allowances and promotion. July 3, 2018 In "Headlines" By Bose Adelaja In the wake of the fallout of the EndSARS Protests across Nigeria, a coalition of human right activists has re-strategised on way forward and issued a fresh seven-point agenda to the federal government. The coalition rose from its one-day meeting in Lagos under the aegies of New… October 30, 2020 In "SARS Update"