Presidency has been advised to apologise to Nigerians for saying that the 43 slain farmers did not get military clearance before farming on the area. “Our party therefore calls on President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately withdraw the offensive statement by his Presidency and apologize to Nigerians, particularly the people of Borno state,” PDP said in a statement. The party through its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, equally lambasted President Muhammadu Buhari Presidency, noting that it has turned into a mouthpiece of terrorists. Read the full statement below: “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is alarmed by the reckless and bizarre attempt by the Buhari Presidency to rationalize the gruesome beheading of 43 innocent Nigerians by insurgents in Zabarmari, Borno state. “The PDP is outraged by the Buhari Presidency’s claims that the farmers were killed because they failed to get clearance before going to their farms; a statement, which is also an admission that the Buhari administration has been overwhelmed by terrorists and can no longer guarantee our compatriots a normal life. “Our party submits that it is weird, reprehensible and repulsive that the Buhari Presidency now seeks to turn itself into a mouthpiece of terrorists by this subtle attempt to rationalize the killing of innocent and hard working Nigerians. “This unpatriotic stance smacks of support for acts of terrorism and mindless killing of our compatriots by a government whose Commander-in-Chief had promised Nigerians to lead the battle against insurgents from the front. “Our party is forced to hold that attitudes such as the unpatriotic remark of the Buhari Presidency embolden insurgents in their ceaseless attacks in our country. “Such also provides further insights into the escalation of acts of terrorism in our country in the last five years. “It is indeed shocking that the Buhari Presidency has graduated from making bogus claims of having degraded terrorism to the embarrassing point of blaming unprotected and helpless Nigerians for falling victims of terrorist attacks. This, to say the least, is the height of leadership failure of the lazy, lethargic and incompetent Buhari administration. “It is therefore insensitive for the Buhari Presidency to have shown this huge lack of empathy, which amounts to a spat on the grave of the slain as well as an unpardonable slap on the faces of the generality of mourning Nigerians. “Perhaps this also informs why their party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), has not deemed it fit to have a word of lamentation for the death nor consolation for the bereaved. “Our party therefore calls on President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately withdraw the offensive statement by his Presidency and apologize to Nigerians, particularly the people of Borno state. “The PDP also restate our call to Mr. President to heed the demands by Nigerians to rejig our security architecture as well as replace his service chiefs with more competent hands in the interest of our nation.” Vanguardngr.com By Dirisu Yakubu - Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Monday, took exception to a comment credited to Presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, who while fielding questions from the British Broadcasting Corporation, BBC, asked if the 43 farmers beheaded by Boko Haram insurgents obtained a military clearance before venturing into the… November 30, 2020 In "Politics" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says the inaction of the Buhari administration on the spiraled wave of killings, banditry and kidnapping, particularly the Sunday carnage in Auno, Borno state, by insurgents, has left the nation with no other option than to hold that the Buhari Presidency has abandoned Nigerians. February 11, 2020 In "News" The nationwide solemnity arising from the killing of more than 100 Nigerian soldiers by Boko Haram in Melete, Borno State, was yesterday breached by the exchange of salvos by the two leading presidential candidates, Muhammadu Buhari and Atiku Abubakar. November 27, 2018 In "Headlines"