CHAIRMAN of Port Harcourt Chapter of the Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents, ANLCA, Chide Madu, has said that the gains at the Port Harcourt port in 2019 have been eroded by the Covid-19 pandemic. Madu who disclosed this in an exclusive chat with Vanguard Maritime Report said before the pandemic, activities at the port had started picking up with the increase in the volume of cargo. He pointed out that currently there are no cargoes coming to the port anymore since the volume of import has drastically reduced. He also blamed the high exchange rate as well as harsh government policies as other reasons for the drop in the volume of activities at the port. He explained that the import restriction of 62 items by the federal government is another reason for the lull in port operations in Port Harcourt. According to him, “The only challenge we have is, we are not having cargoes at Port Harcourt. It is because of Covid-19 and the high exchange rate of the naira against the dollar which has discouraged most people from importing. “Government policies are harsh and the restriction on 62 items has also affected port operation in Port Harcourt. There should be a review of government physical policy on importation,” he concluded. Vanguard News Nigeria ASSOCIATION of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents, ANLCA, has called on the Federal Government to declare a force majeure on imports and exports operations in the ports with immediate effect. April 1, 2020 In "Business" NATIONAL President of the Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents, ANLCA, Hon. Tony Nwabunike, has appealed to members and the entire freight forwarding community to key into the window provided by the Federal Government for clearance of cargo from the port during the forthcoming Easter holiday, noting that agencies of… April 15, 2020 In "News" AT the backdrop of an increasing congestion at the Lagos ports, the Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents, ANLCA, has called on the Federal Government to liaise with ocean liners to stem cargo vessels currently waiting to berth at the Lagos, Port Harcourt and Onne anchorages, and to divert them… January 15, 2020 In "Business"