United States President Donald Trump Wednesday criticized the ongoing general elections in the country. Trump who had earlier claimed premature victory, described the ongoing elections as strange, nothing that his votes disappeared magically. “Last night I was leading, often solidly, in many key States in almost all instances Democrat run & controlled. “Then, one by one, they started to magically disappear as surprise ballot dumps were counted. VERY STRANGE, and the “pollsters” got it completely & historically wrong!” Recall that Trump had vowed to seek redress in court. Speaking to supporters at the White House, Trump prematurely claimed that “we did win” the election against Joe Biden and Democratic Party (despite having no basis to do so) – before confirming plans to halt ballot counting in states that are yet to declare due to mail-in voting. His words: “We were getting ready for big celebrations, and all of a sudden it was called off,” he said. “The results tonight have been phenomenal.” Last night I was leading, often solidly, in many key States, in almost all instances Democrat run & controlled. Then, one by one, they started to magically disappear as surprise ballot dumps were counted. VERY STRANGE, and the “pollsters” got it completely & historically wrong! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 4, 2020  They are finding Biden votes all over the place — in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan. So bad for our Country! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 4, 2020  WHAT IS THIS ALL ABOUT? https://t.co/6487pYLZnL — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 4, 2020  They are working hard to make up 500,000 vote advantage in Pennsylvania disappear — ASAP. Likewise, Michigan and others! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 4, 2020  How come every time they count Mail-In ballot dumps they are so devastating in their percentage and power of destruction? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 4, 2020  Democrat Joe Biden claimed Wednesday he was winning America's knife-edge election, but President Donald Trump shot right back by predicting his own victory and accusing his opponent of trying to "steal" the vote. Appearing before supporters in his hometown of Wilmington, Delaware, after midnight, Biden said "we believe we're on… November 4, 2020 In "Foreign" United States (US) President Donald Trump on Wednesday claimed he had won the US election, despite the final results not yet being given, and said he would go to the Supreme Court to dispute the counting of votes. "We did win this election," Trump said in an extraordinary speech from… November 4, 2020 In "Foreign" Joe Biden's White House campaign slammed US President Donald Trump's threat to try to stop the election vote count as "outrageous" early Wednesday, saying its legal team was ready to prevent such an "unprecedented" act. "The president's statement tonight about trying to shut down the counting of duly cast ballots… November 4, 2020 In "Foreign"