President Muhammadu Buhari has signed into law the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act 2020. The new law introduces a credit tribunal to improve loan recovery and address the incidence of high non-performing loans within the financial system, which has been a key deterrent to lending by financial institutions. A statement issued on Friday in Abuja by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said that President Buhari signed into law the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act 2020 on Thursday. Shehu, in the statement explained, “It repeals the extant Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act 1991 as amended. This monumental piece of legislation is expected to enhance the soundness and resilience of the financial system for sustainable growth and development of the Nigerian economy. “The BOFI Act 2020 updates the enabling law in response to developments and significant evolution in the financial sector over the last two decades. It will increase the appetite of banks and other financial institutions to channel much needed credit to the real sector to support economic recovery and promote sustainable growth. “In this respect, it introduces a credit tribunal to improve loan recovery and address the incidence of high non-performing loans within the financial system, which has been a key deterrent to lending by financial institutions. “Furthermore, it strengthens the regulatory and supervisory framework for the financial industry and provides additional tools for managing failing institutions and systemic distress to preserve financial stability amongst others. The Central Bank of Nigeria will hold structured engagements with stakeholders across various sectors of the economy on critical aspects of the Act in the coming months. “This enactment of the BOFI Act 2020 is a historic and significant achievement, which is indicative of effective and productive collaboration between the Executive and Legislature arms of Government.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Ibrahim HassanWuyo The Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Institutions has expressed concern over the campaign against the presidential assent to the recently passed Bank and other Financial Institutions Act (BOFIA) 2020 by the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG). Chairman  of the Committee, Senator Uba Sani in… September 9, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has signed the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit bill (NFIU) 2018 into law, creating a body that will henceforth monitor illegal money transfers and money laundering. July 12, 2018 In "Business" Acting President Yemi Osinbajo, has signed into law two bills that would give easy access to credit facility for Nigerians. May 30, 2017 In "News"