The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, has called on  Local Government Council administrators in the country to relocate all the markets from the highways. Dr Oyeyemi, made the call on the backdrop of the traffic crash caused by brake failure and loss of control that claimed multiple lives at the Ibaka area of Akungba Akoko, Akoko South-West Local Government Area of Ondo State on Saturday evening. Dr Oyeyemi noted that relocating markets from the highways will help the existing operational efforts of the FRSC towards enhancing the safety of the entire motoring population. The FRSC boss, who spoke via a statement issued by Bisi Kazeem, the Corps Public Education Officer, decried the road traffic crash which claimed multiple lives. Lamenting the huge loss of lives and damage to properties occasioned by the unfortunate but avoidable occurrence, Oyeyemi explained that the crash occurred at about 6.30 pm on Saturday 31 October 2020, when a DAF Truck loaded with bags of rice rammed into the stalls in the market and crashed into a Toyota Camry saloon car, Toyota corolla and 3 other motorcycles. The fatal crash involved a total of 23 people comprising of 11 male adults, 3 male children, 7 female adult and 2 female children. Out of the 23 people involved, a total of 7 people comprising of 3 male adults, 3 female adult and 1 male child were rescued with different degrees of injuries and taking to the hospital. While 16 people got killed comprising of 8 male adults, 2 male children, 4 female adult and 2 female children and the dead bodies have been deposited at Specialist Hospital Ikare and General Hospital Iwaro Oka mortuaries respectively by FRSC emergency rescue teams. The Corps Marshal who spoke extensively on the urgency of such relocation also revealed that the Corps is concerned with the rising statistics of innocent citizens who have lost their lives as a result of building markets close to the highways and has since initiated impact-oriented operational strategies to curb the menace. He, however, lamented that the strategies no matter how good will not yield desired results if the government at the grassroots did not rise to the responsibility of relocating those markets. Commiserating with the families of the victims, the Corps Marshal advised road users to be more disciplined, maintain their vehicles regularly and maintain prescribed speed limits at all times especially crowded places like markets. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Chris Ochayi The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi has called on Local Government Council administrators in the country to relocate all the markets from the highways. Dr. Oyeyemi, made the call on the backdrop of the recent road traffic crash caused by break failure… November 1, 2020 In "News" ...Two male children, two female children involved By Dayo Johnson - Akure The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Dr Boboye Oyeyemi has confirmed that 16 persons died in the last weekend auto crash in Akungba in Akoko south-west council area of Ondo State. Recall that the crash occurred… November 1, 2020 In "Metro" ....Mourns victims of Enugu road crash     By Chris Ochayi     ABUJA: The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi has ordered the immediate resumption of all operational activities in Corps' formations across the country.   Recall the Corps Marshal had earlier ordered the suspension… October 30, 2020 In "News"