Cristiano Ronaldo was on Thursday named in the Portugal squad to play a friendly against Andorra and Nations League matches against France and Croatia. The five-time Ballon d’Or winner tested positive for coronavirus on October 13 when with the Portugal squad, going on to miss the 3-0 victory over Sweden. The 35-year-old finally tested negative 19 days later, returning to the pitch with a double for Juventus against Spezia in Serie A action on Sunday. The Portugal captain also played in Juve’s 4-1 victory over Ferencvaros in the Champions League on Wednesday. Reigning European champions Portugal take on Andorra on Wednesday before Nations League A3 matches at home against France on November 14 and away to Croatia three days later. The main absentee from Fernando Santos’ 25-man squad is Pepe, the 37-year-old central defender is out with a foot injury. “He’s an example for the younger ones at training, with his attitude,” Santos said of Pepe, who has just signed a contract extension until 2023 with Porto. “It’s a shame he’s not there because normally he’s a shoo-in starter.” Lille defender Jose Fonte, who will offer cover for the absent Pepe, and Lyon goalkeeper Anthony Lopes are both included having recovered from Covid-19. There are first call-ups for Wolverhampton winger Pedro Neto and Sporting Braga striker Paulinho. Portugal are joint leaders with France of group A3, each on 10 points. “The goal will be to once again qualify for the Nations League final four and defend the trophy we won last year,” said Santos. A secondary objective was to “also have a look at some players who have the quality to represent this team”, the coach added. Portugal squad Goalkeepers (3): Anthony Lopes (Lyon/FRA), Rui Patricio (Wolverhampton/ENG), Rui Silva (Grenada/ESP) Defenders (8): Joao Cancelo (Manchester City/ENG), Nelson Semedo (Wolverhampton/ENG), Jose Fonte (Lille/FRA), Ruben Dias (Manchester City/ENG), Ruben Semedo (Olympiakos/GRE), Mario Rui (Napoli/ITA), Raphael Guerreiro (Dortmund/GER), Domingos Duarte (Grenada/ESP) Midfielders (7): Danilo Pereira (Paris Saint-Germain/FRA), Ruben Neves (Wolverhampton/ENG), William Carvalho (Real Betis/ESP), Bruno Fernandes (Manchester United/ENG), Renato Sanches (Lille/FRA), Joao Moutinho (Wolverhampton/ENG), Sergio Oliveira(Porto) Forwards (7): Bernardo Silva (Manchester City/ENG), Diogo Jota (Liverpool/ENG), Cristiano Ronaldo (Juventus/ITA), Francisco Trincao (Barcelona/ESP), Joao Felix (Atletico Madrid/ESP), Pedro Neto (Wolverhampton/ENG), Paulinho (SC Braga) VANGUARD Portuguese superstar Cristiano Ronaldo has returned to Italy to complete his quarantine after testing positive for the coronavirus on international duty, his club Juventus said Wednesday. “Cristiano Ronaldo returned to Italy with a medical flight authorised by the competent health authorities at the request of the player and will continue… October 15, 2020 In "Sports" CRISTIANO RONALDO saw his World Cup dreams slip away once again on Saturday but gave no hint as to whether he plans to continue playing for Portugal. July 1, 2018 In "Sports" Portugal and Juventus forward Cristiano Ronaldo has tested positive for coronavirus, the Portuguese football federation announced on Tuesday. Ronaldo “is asymptomatic” and “will not play against Sweden” in Wednesday’s Nations League match, the federation said on its website. Ronaldo, 35, who has won the Ballon d’Or five times, played in… October 13, 2020 In "Sports"