Gunmen on Monday invaded the house of a staff member of the Ahmadu Bello University, ABU ,Zaria and abducted him and his family. The wife and daughter were, however, released after an exchange of fire between the gunmen and security operatives The staff was residing at Sardauna Crescent, Area BZ, ABU Main Campus, Samaru, Zaria. “They went away with him, along with his wife and daughter,”Malam Auwalu Umar, ,the ABU Director, Public Affairs Directorate stated. According to Umar, ” the University Security Division quickly informed the operatives of the Police Intelligence Response Team that advanced to the scene following the distress call. There was an exchange of fire between the kidnappers and the mobile police operatives. When it was clear that they would be overpowered, the kidnappers ran into the bush along with the victims.” “As the police went after them up to Kasuwar Da’a village bordering the University, the kidnappers then released the wife and the daughter and went away with the husband. Some empty shells were recovered from the scene. The Inspector General of Police and other security agencies, as well as all relevant government establishments have been duly informed of the unfortunate incident.” “The Vice-Chancellor urges the University community to remain calm and vigilant to avoid the recurrence of the incident,” he said Vanguard News Nigeria The increasing rate of kidnapping in Kogi has turned the state into an haven of kidnapping. The cries of residents are disheartening. From the Kogi Central Senatorial axis to the Eastern flank of the state, the gory tales of kidnapping have become a recurring decimal. Even the Western Senatorial axis… June 12, 2015 In "Politics" Gunmen have abducted the daughter of the former Vice-Chancellor of the Ahamdu Bello University (ABU) Zaria, Professor Abdullahi Mustapha, from their residence in Zaria, Kaduna State. According to a statement by the spokesperson of the Kaduna State Police command, DSP Yakubu Sabo, the gunmen stormed the home of the former… February 10, 2020 In "Metro" The Notorious kidnapper, Henry Chibueze, also known as, Vampire who escaped from prison custody on January 27,2017, when some gunmen believed to be his gang members stormed the Owerri High Court in Imo State and rescued him, killing two persons while many others sustained bullet wounds, has been killed in… March 2, 2017 In "News"