The Presidential Task Force (PTF), on COVID-19, has said that there will be no relaxing of the Coronavirus (COVID-19), protocols ahead of the Christmas season. The coordinator of the PTF, Dr Sani Aliyu, stated this on Thursday in Abuja at the daily briefing of the pandemic. Aliyu said that Nigeria was currently worried about the rising cases of COVID-19 pandemic across the globe hence the need to enforce the COVID-19 rules during the holiday season. While speaking on international travels, the coordinator advised all holiday seekers to suspend their trips and stay in the country as Nigeria would ensure that every incoming passenger would undergo the travel rules in the country. The Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, also advised both incoming and outgoing travellers to suspend their travels if it was not necessary. Ihekweazu also said that apart from COVID-19, other cases like Ebola, yellow fever were growing in Congo DR and that was why it was important that non-essential travels should be suspended. Vanguard News Nigeria The Federal Government has said that the Chinese experts coming to Nigeria with globally scarce supplies in the fight against the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic would be subjected to established rules in the country. Dr Osagie Ehanire, Minister of Health, disclosed this at the Presidential Taskforce (PTF) briefing on COVID-19… April 7, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, says the Federal Government is not expecting an upsurge of fatality in the fight against novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the country. April 13, 2020 In "News" Dr Sani Aliyu, Coordinator, Presidential Task Force (PTF), has said that Plateau is now the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) hot centre as more cases are been confirmed in the state. Aliyu, who spoke at the PTF daily briefing on Monday in Abuja, said that the state was leading in confirmed cases… September 1, 2020 In "News"