Mr Michael Igbe, the Programme Manager, National Onchocerciasis Elimination Programme, Federal Ministry of Health, says about 50 million Nigerians are at risk of getting infected with onchocerciasis, also called River Blindness. Igbe said this in Ibadan during a media dialogue organised by the Child Rights Information Bureau (CRIB) of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, in collaboration with the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF). The manager, who spoke on “Overview on Onchocerciasis Elimination in Nigeria”, said “treatment with ivermectin started in 1989, and in 1997, the Community Directed Treatment with Ivermectin (CDTI) strategy was adopted as the main strategy of programme implementation. “At inception, Nigeria had interventions covering 32 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Now, 27 states and the FCT, with about 50 million persons in Nigeria are at risk of onchocerciasis.” Igbe explained that the disease was caused by the nematode Onchocerca volvulus, which is the second leading cause of preventable blindness. According to him, onchocerciasis is transmitted by the bite of an infected black fly: Simulium damnosum and other species, breeding in fast-flowing streams and rivers. He noted that “people become blind early in life as from 20-30 years.” He added that the major challenge faced in addressing the disease was insecurity in some local government areas. Others, he said, were poor funding by government and inadequate logistics for Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) programme. He noted that NTDs are viral, parasitic and bacterial diseases that mainly affect the world’s poorest people. (NAN) VANGUARD The international health community - health ministers, donors, non-governmental development partners, UN agencies, health experts and the media - converged recently at the Transcorp Hilton, Abuja, the Nigerian capital, united in one purpose - how to rid Africa of the River blindness scourge. January 10, 2011 In "Health" NIGERIA today takes a decisive step closer towards elimination of River Blindness as President Goodluck Jonathan, opens a three-day Joint Action Forum (JAF), governing board meeting of the World Health Organisation African Programme for Onchocerciasis (River blindness) Control (WHO/APOC) in Abuja. December 6, 2010 In "Health" As part of efforts to check cases of river blindness or onchocerciasis in parts of Nigeria , over 19million Nigerians infected or at the risk of infection by the disease have been availed professional treatment and drugs in the last 12 years to arrest the spread of the tropical disease… March 23, 2010 In "Health"