The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) has described the alleged increase of ex-depot price of premium motor spirit from 147.67 to 155.75 without any consideration for the current economic and political situation of the country as uncalled for. IPMAN therefore, appealed to the federal government to stay action on the implementation of the new ex-depot price announced by the management of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The South West Zonal Chairman of IPMAN, Alhaji Dele Tajudeen, who said this in a statement issued in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, said the plea became necessary so as not to incur the wrath of Nigerians who are going through economic hardship. According to him, the increase is exclusive of marketers margin, transportation, loading expenses, saying, that government is insensitive to the plight of the marketers and the masses. “We are therefore pleading with the federal government to shelve the planned increase until further notice, to give room for consideration and adjustment. “Without any consideration to the stakeholders plights, the federal government announced the new price regime which NNPC management said it would be effective from today, Friday, 13th 2020” Tajudeen stressed with concern. “He declared that IPMAN will hold emergency meeting with other stakeholders to trash out this unbecoming and the arbitrary increase in the ex-depot prices”, he concluded. Vanguard News Nigeria By James Ogunnaike The South West chapter of Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) has directed all its members in the zone to increase the dispensing pump price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise known as petroleum from N143 to N150 in their respective filling stations. IPMAN South-West Zonal… August 6, 2020 In "News" The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) in Kano State says the association has no plan to sell petrol above the government’s approved price of N145 per litre. April 2, 2019 In "Business" The Akwa Ibom chapter of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) says its members are currently lifting fuel at the cost of N144 per litre as against N133.28 approved by government. December 7, 2017 In "News"