Retired IGP Tafa Balogun has appealed to officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) to return to their statutory duties after they were displaced from their stations during the #EndSARS protests. A statement from the ex-IGP on Thursday, November 12, says: “I urge all members of the Nigeria Police in our country to return to their duty posts and continue to provide the much-needed security to our dear country, Nigeria; not minding the recent brutal attacks, arson, and acts of intimidation against the Police. “The Nigeria Police remains the first line of Internal Security as guaranteed by the Nigerian Constitution. Therefore, it behoves all and sundry not to betray the spirit of the Constitution. “I sincerely appeal and urge all my brothers and sisters in the Police Force to put the past behind us as the Federal and State Governments, as well as the police authorities, are positively and aggressively addressing the unprecedented provocative attacks on the police institution. We all love you. “Please, once again, I appeal to all of you to return to duty without further delay.” Vanguard News Nigeria The appointment of IGPs is not a ballot box affair. Making an Assistant Inspector General of Police the IGP does not amount  to politicisation and polarisation October 1, 2010 In "Nigeria @ 50" LAST week Wednesday, the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, was forced, on behalf of his colleagues, to pronounce the Inspector-General of Police, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris as an “enemy of our democracy.” He declared him a persona non-grata and unfit to hold public office both within and outside Nigeria.… May 14, 2018 In "News" Following the appointment of AIG Ibrahim Idris as the 19th indigenous Inspector General of Police and subsequent retirement of 21 Assistant Inspectors General of Police which created uproar and misgivings in some quarters, Chairman, Police Service Commission, Dr. Mike Okiro has explained that the action of the federal government regarding… July 11, 2016 In "News"