The Kaduna State government has urged residents of the state to turn out en masse and participate in the coronation ceremony of the new Emir of Zazzau, Amb. Ahmad Bamalli. Bamalli is to be installed as the 19th emir of Zazzau on Nov. 9, at the Muhammadu Aminu Square, Race Course, GRA Zaria. Alhaji Ja’afaru Sani, Chairman of the Central Working Committee for the installation ceremony, made the call in a statement issued on Sunday in Kaduna. Sani, who is also the state’s Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, said that arrangements had been concluded to facilitate smooth conduct of the installation ceremony. He said the new emir would host a special durbar as part of activities lined up to celebrate the installation. The Commissioner enjoined the people of the state to pray for peace, unity and prosperity of Zazzau Emirate and the state at large. Sani also urged the people to line up along the street starting from Tudun Wada to Kofar Doka areas of Zaria metropolis, to catch a glimpse of the new Emir and pay him homage. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. ...as coronation's scheduled for 9th of Nov By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Moves to stop the coronation of the 19th emir of Zazzau suffered set back as  a Kaduna state High Court sitting  in Zaria  dismissed the application brought before it by one Bashir Aminu ,the Iyan Zazzau. This came as arrangements… November 6, 2020 In "News" ...as coronation's scheduled for 9th of Nov By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Moves to stop the coronation of the 19th emir of Zazzau suffered set back as a Kaduna state High Court sitting in Zaria dismissed the application brought before it by one Bashir Aminu, the Iyan Zazzau. This came as arrangements… November 7, 2020 In "News" …as new emir gets appointment letter …Security heightens in Zaria …Low celebration, tears of joy By Ibrahim HassanWuyo As officials of the Kaduna State Government presented letter of appointment to Amb. Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli, the new emir of Zazzau, a historian and leader of Ulamas in the Emirate, Idris Musa,… October 8, 2020 In "News"