 YENAGOA BAYELSA State has recorded ten new cases of Corona virus, as it continues the search for active Covid-19 cases and medical outreach for flood victims in the state. The NCDC Support Officer for Bayelsa State, Samuel Abaya, disclosed this weekend during an outreach at  the flood ravaged Amassoma town in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area. The exercise witnessed Covid-19 test, immunization, deworming, extraction of tooth, laboratory testing for malaria parasite, diabetes, hypertension and HIV tests. Samuel Abaya who spoke on the actions taken to retrieve the new cases, said the exercise would ensure the upscale in the number of people tested for Covid-19 in the state, noting that 8,000 residents have been tested so far. “We have been able to get about ten new confirmed cases. We have been able to follow them up and the contact tracing as well as follow up on their contacts. “The testing is supposed to continue, we don’t know when we are going to stop because the governor wants the testing to continue so that we can be able to reach all the communities in all the local government areas, especially those impacted by flood. “We are expecting that up to next week we will still be doing this testing. This will help us upscale our testing, increase the number of persons that have been tested in the state and that will help to analyse and also know the burden of the Cover 19 in Bayelsa as a whole,” he said. On his part, the Community Development Committee, CDC, Chairman of Amassoma, Biriabebe Samuel, expressed gratitude to the state government and the Ministry of Health for taking the outreach to his community. Also,  some beneficiaries while expressing joy, thanked the governor, Senator Douye Diri and the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Pabara Newton Igwele for their efforts to mitigate the effect of the flood.  EDO State Government has announced the discharge of 917 suspected coronavirus cases across the 18 local government areas of the state, who have completed the compulsory 14-day follow up and tested negative. May 20, 2020 In "News" *Gov. Diri Extends Presidential Directives For Two Weeks *Jonathan, Dickson, Ooni Of Ife Donate To State By Samuel Oyadongha YENAGOA - A medical doctor has tested positive for COVID-19 in Bayelsa State, bringing the number of active cases in the state to two. Governor Douye Diri announced the new confirmed… May 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, yesterday,  signed the third Rivers State Government's Executive Order for a Task Force to check  reported sabotage by federal security agents enforcing closure of Rivers borders to prevent Coronavirus spread. April 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"