The  Special Assistant on Special Duties  Media  to the Delta State Governor Mr Ossai Ovie Success has felicitated with Nigerian artiste, Damini Ogulu, popularly known as Burna Boy on his nomination for Grammy awards in two consecutive years. Ossai in  a Congratulatory message described Burna  boy nomination as a reward for good music in Nigeria. “I am a fan of good music and listening to burna boy songs over the years, I can rightly say he is a musician with lyrical creativity. “As a Nigerian, his nomination at the Grammy gives me joy . “Burna boy is my brother from the south south but I am not praising him because he is from the south south, I am Celebrating him for giving us good songs . “His last album “Twice as Tall,” is full of inspiration and not senseless. “The album talks about reality and Positivity of life .I Celebrate him for making us proud with good music. “It is my  prayer that God will help him in bringing the  Grammy award home “ Recall that the  ‘Wonderful’ crooner Burna Boy was nominated in the Best Global Music category of the 62nd Grammys with his African Giant album, which he lost to Angelique Kidjo, Beninese singer and songwriter, who had won the Grammys four times. According to the list released by Grammy Awards organisers, Burna Boy’s new album is presently nominated in the Best Global Music category alongside albums FU CHRONICLES by Antibalas, AGORA by Bebel Gilberto, LOVE LETTERS by Anoushka Shankar and AMADJAR by Tinariwen. Vanguard News NIgeria Fans have continued to flood social media with congratulatory messages following Afro-fusion star, Damini Ogulu, aka Burna Boy’s Grammy nomination. November 21, 2019 In "Entertainment" He was nominated in the ‘Best World Music Album’ category for his album ‘African Giant’ which also featured Angelique Kidjo who was nominated in the same category. November 22, 2019 In "Entertainment" South African rapper, AKA has reacted to the Grammy Award loss of Nigerian singer, Burna Boy. The 62nd Grammy Awards which held Sunday night in Los Angeles, California, saw legendary singer, Angelique Kidjo winning with her album Ceila in the category for Best World Music Album. Following the news, trolls… January 28, 2020 In "Entertainment"