Governor Simon Lalong has lauded 17-year-old Sylvia Ulan, daughter of a widow, for getting distinctions in all the subjects she sat for at the last Senior Secondary School Certificate (SSCE). The governor commended Miss Ulan during her visit to his office on Tuesday, at Government House, Jos. He said he was proud of her performance and would award her scholarship to a tertiary institution of her choice. “I do not think anyone in the northern region got  A1 in all the papers they sat for in this year’s SSCE exams,’’ he said. He noted that she is a role model especially for people who had given up because of loss of their parents, urging other children to emulate her in striving hard against all odds. In her appreciation, Ulan who is from Bokkos Local Government Area of Plateau, attributed her success to God, her mother and her teachers, who helped in her studies. “I want to appreciate God, I did not expect it, I know I worked hard but we were called back to school barely two weeks before the exams, thank God my hard work paid off,” she said. The graduate of Premiere Academy School, Lugbe, Abuja, said she wants to study Chemical Engineering and be outstanding in the field. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that Sylvia Ulan got A one in, English, Math, Further Math, Chemistry, Technical Drawing, Physics, Civic Education, Geography and Radio Television and Electronic Works in the 2020 Senior Secondary School. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria Mr Pius Dashe, Chief Administration Officer, Plateau Government House, Jos is dead. March 16, 2017 In "News" Gov. Simon Lalong, has sacked Mr Simon Angyol, the Management Committee Chairman of Bokkos Local Government Area of the state over incessant killings in the locality. March 13, 2018 In "News" Eight months ago, after winning the governorship elections in Plateau state on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Governor Simon Lalong began the journey of governance by constituting different committees to look into the various activities of his predecessor, Jonah Jang, now senator representing Plateau North in the… January 29, 2016 In "News"