Nigeria and six foreign countries will be participating and showcasing their eGovernment experiences at this year’s Nigeria eGovernment Summit. The annual Nigeria eGovernment Summit which holds  November 17  at Sheraton Hotels and Tower, Ikeja, is themed: COVID-19: Impetus for Accelerated Adoption of eGovernment. According to the organisers, the summit is geared towards accelerating online presence of the Nigerian government at all levels. Given the global shift from physical transactions to online transactions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the organisers of the summit said they would focus more  on policies, strategies, solutions and technologies that would be required to achieve accelerated eGovernment deployment at the federal, state and local government levels, and to make government’s online presence felt by  all Nigerians. The Executive Chairman, DigiServe Network Services, and convener of the summit, Mr.  Lanre Ajayi said: “We are assembling world-class technology experts and solution providers to share their experiences and showcase latest innovations applicable to eGovernment service deployment. “We are also inviting top government officials not only to learn from foreign experts but also to share their own experience and showcase the state of eGovernment services deployment in their respective governance domains,” Ajayi said. The foreign countries include  France,  South Africa,  Egypt,  Kenya,  Malaysia, and  Ethiopia. DigiServe Network Services Limited, in partnership with Federal Inland Revenue Service, FIRS, Nigerian Communication Commission, NCC, Association of Telecoms companies of Nigeria, ATCON and Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria, ALTON, has invited key participants and experts to discuss the economic benefits of eGovernment and the need to government at all levels to increase their online presence. VANGUARD Technology company, DigiServe Network Services Limited is organising a one-day conference to discuss how technology adoption in government can boost government IGR, enhance Government service delivery and reduce unemployment in the country. October 9, 2019 In "News" Technology enthusiasts will be treated with a potpourri of innovative products at this year’s eGovernment Conference, as Information and Communications Technology, ICT companies  have promised to showcase innovative products at the event. October 16, 2019 In "News" The former President hit the ground running with the creation of the Ministry of Communications Technology in 2011, to foster a knowledge based economy and information society in Nigeria. Other areas of the ministry were to facilitate universal, ubiquitous and cost effective access to communications infrastructure throughout the country. June 3, 2015 In "News"