The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, Friday, disclosed that despite the increase in the Ex-depot price of Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, to N155.17 per litre by its subsidiary, the Petroleum Products Marketing Company, PPMC, oil marketers who patronise its online platform would purchase the product at N153.17 per litre. In a statement in Abuja, Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division of the NNPC, Mr. Kennie Obateru, said on the PPMC’s  ‘Customer Express’ platform, the online portal for procurement of petroleum products, PMS is sold at Ex-Coastal Price – N128, and Ex-Depot Price (with collection) – N153.17 per litre. He said: “The NNPC is aware of a document widely circulating in the media purporting an increase in the PPMC Ex-Coastal Price and Ex-Depot Price (with collection) to N130 and N155.17 respectively and wishes to clarify that although there was a slight increase in the price based on the prevailing realities of market forces of demand and supply, the correct prices, as can be seen on PPMC’s  ‘Customer Express’ platform (online portal for procurement of petroleum products) are: Ex-Coastal Price – N128, and Ex-Depot Price (with collection) – N153.17.” He advised oil marketers to make their purchases through the online ‘Customer Express’ platform (PPMCCustomer.Express/login/authenticate) at the recommended prices. Vanguard News Nigeria ...Sells to marketers at N155.17 The Petroleum Products Marketing Company, one of the downstream subsidiaries of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, Friday, hiked the ex-depot price of Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, also known as petrol, by N7.50 per litre to N155.17 per litre from N147.67 per litre previously. In… November 13, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, yesterday, said it has deployed more of its depots and other throughput facilities to enforce the N133.28 per litre Ex-Depot price of Premium Motor Spirit, otherwise known as petrol, to marketers directly. January 15, 2018 In "Business" By Michael Eboh THE Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC), Wednesday, slashed the ex-depot price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), also known as petrol, to N108 per litre, a move reflecting the drop in crude oil prices. It is also expected to result in a lower pump price at petrol stations… May 6, 2020 In "News"