Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina has said that his principal President Muhammadu Buhari, exhibited self-restraint and tolerance during the #ENDSARS protests. Adesina in his article titled: ‘WE HAVE NOT MANY FATHERS’ shared on his Facebook page, commended Buhari’s fatherly role, noting that these attributes displayed by the president prevented the country from descending into anarchy. Recounting what the president said even after the protest had been hijacked and hoodlums began wreaking havoc, he wrote, “That was why when the EndSARS protest started, and began to fester, and was eventually hijacked and misdirected, President Buhari did not change the instructions, the rules of engagement to security agencies, particularly the police. “Things began to degenerate. Policemen were being killed, prisoners being set free, roads and airports being blocked, the economy was being locked down once again after the about five months lockdown imposed by COVID-19, yet the President did not change the order to the police, particularly. “It was not till last week that the Inspector General of Police instructed his men to now use ‘lawful force’ to confront any insurrection. Sadly, scores of them had been killed in cold blood, scores of patrol vehicles torched, and over 200 police stations, public and private property burnt. “If President Buhari hadn’t exercised the restraint and tolerance of a father, at a time that even hitherto respected people instigated the protesters to carry on (and they promptly went underground when anarchy ensued), we would have been talking of something else in the country. “The rivers of Nigeria could have turned crimson, and mourning and lamentations would have suffused the land. But we are thankful for the father in President Buhari, patient and enduring, almost to a fault. Thousands of youths took to the streets last to demand an end to police brutality and better governance under the #EndSARS banner. Vanguard News Nigeria It was very touching, poignant, as President Muhammadu Buhari met with all living former heads of state on October 23, 2020, to discuss the state of the nation. For about two weeks, the country had been suffused with unrest, later violence, precipitated by what began as legitimate protests against police… October 30, 2020 In "Viewpoint" President Muhammadu Buhari has described as unfortunate the way and manner the initial genuine and well-intended protest of youths in parts of the country against the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) was hijacked and misdirected.   A statement by Mr Femi Adesina, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and… October 23, 2020 In "News" Says genuine protest hijacked, misdirected As Obasanjo, Gowon, Abubakar commend president on broadcast By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday reiterated that the Federal Government will not fold its arms and allow miscreants and criminals to continue to perpetrate acts of hooliganism in the country. The President… October 23, 2020 In "News"