 The pupils are from Amaokpara village in Oshiri. Sources alleged that the driver of the water tanker after commiting the heinous crime didn’t stop as the action angered the youths of the area who went after him, and lynched both the driver and the conductor at Onicha Igbeze a nearby community after Oshiri. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ebonyi Command, DSP Loveth Odah, confirmed the accident and said the children were confirmed dead by a doctor in the hospital. She said the body of the driver and the conductor were recovered and deposited at Onicha general hospital but no member of the affected family have come to the station since the tragedy occurred. “Yesterday through a distress call the DPO of  Onicha LGA was contacted that an accident happened killing five school children and angry youths attacked the driver and killed him. “The driver Ewa Innocent is from Ameka Ikwo while the conductor Ojim Danis of Agharazo, Iyiemgu Izzi are all lying in the mortuary. She urged motorists to drive with care and observe all road signs and regulations while on the highway. “Drivers should drive with caution. It is better to be late than to be permanently addressed as late. It is not just that they killed the children it is true that accident is an unexpected occurrence but even as we are not expecting it we should trade with caution because any recklessness can cause accident. “The CP is mourning and commensurates with the family of the deceased. I want to warm road users to drive with carefulness because this is Embar month. We have lost a lot this year.”  A 37-year-old woman and primary school teacher, Mrs. Rachael Nworie of Ishata Amanato village, Anioma Isu community in Onicha Local Government Area of Ebonyi state, yesterday, urged the state police command to investigate the gruesome murder of her husband, Michael Nworie by suspected assassins in the area August 25, 2016 In "News" However, this all important creation of God is not available for the people of the South East zone due to lack of planning or neglect by the various administrations that have served in the five states of Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo which make up the area. Politicians still… May 25, 2016 In "News" EBONYI State government, yesterday, disclosed that it has begun the revamping of all profitable agricultural facilities spread across the state in order to boost agricultural activities and increase the internally generated revenue of the state. June 28, 2017 In "News"