Moves to stop the coronation of the 19th emir of Zazzau suffered set back as a Kaduna state High Court sitting in Zaria dismissed the application brought before it by one Bashir Aminu, the Iyan Zazzau. This came as arrangements were on for the coronation of the new emir on the 9th, November 2020 in Zaria. Iyan Zazzau asked the court to stop the Kaduna state government from installing  Ahmad Nuhu Bamalli as the 19th Emir of Zazzau However, in his ruling, Justice Kabir Dabo ruled that the court’s refusal to grant the applicant request was taken out of the best interest of the emirate and its people. “The refusal of the court to grant the Plaintiff his request was in the interest of peace and security and to avert any possible crisis in the emirate,” he said. The court also said that granting the application could create a vacuum in Zazzau Emirshp stool. This would not be well with subjects of the emirate and could ignite crisis and breach of security in the domain. According to the court,  refusal of the injunction was better than granting it as it could push the subjects of the emirate in crisis when the vacuum of the emirship is created. The court, however, adjourned the case to 18th, November 2020 for accelerated hearing on the substantive suit. Vanguard News Nigeria. ...as coronation's scheduled for 9th of Nov By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Moves to stop the coronation of the 19th emir of Zazzau suffered set back as  a Kaduna state High Court sitting  in Zaria  dismissed the application brought before it by one Bashir Aminu ,the Iyan Zazzau. This came as arrangements… November 6, 2020 In "News" …Claims he got more votes than appointed emir By Ibrahim Hassan A prince of Zazzau Emirate in Kaduna State, the Iyan Zazzau, Bashiru Aminu, has gone to court to challenge the appointment of Ahmed Nuhu-Bamalli as the new Emir of Zazzau, by Governor Nasiru el-Rufai. Bamalli succeeded Dr. Shehu Idris,… October 13, 2020 In "News" By Ibrahim HassanWuyo On 6th, November 2020, a High Court sitting in Zaria will rule on the Interlocutory injunction brought before it by a contender to the Royal stool in Zazzau Emirate, Bashir Aminu (Iyan Zazzau) On Wednesday in Court, both counsels for the plaintiff and defendants presented their arguments… November 5, 2020 In "News"