The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released the framework for NIRSAL Microfinance Bank (NMFB) to commence the disbursement of the N75 billion Nigeria Youth Investment Fund (NYIF). The Federal Executive Council (FEC) on the 22nd of July, 2020 approved the money for the period of 2020 – 2023. The fund is dedicated to investment in the innovative ideas, skills and talents of Nigerian youths between the ages of 18-35 years, and to institutionally provide them with a special window for accessing much needed funds, finances, business management skills and other inputs critical for sustainable enterprise development. The framework among other things stated that NYIF aims to financially empower Nigeria youth to generate at least 500,000 jobs between 2020 and 2023. It also noted that informal business enterprises (individuals and sole proprietors) and formal business enterprises (youth owned enterprises) are eligible to apply for the loan. However, the framework mentioned that applicants currently enjoying NMFB loans, including the Targeted Credit Facility (TCF) and Agribusiness/Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Scheme (AgSMEIS) loans that remain unpaid are not eligible to apply. Furthermore, it noted that beneficiaries of other government loan schemes that remain unpaid are also not eligible to participate. The loan tenor, according to the framework, is a maximum of 5 years depending on the nature of the business and the assets acquired with an interest rate of 5 percent per annum. Vanguard The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released guidelines for implementation of the proposed N75 billion Nigeria Youth Investment Fund (NYIF). CBN, in a statement by its Development Finance Department, stated that the fund was a built-in strategy to effectively respond to the challenge of youth employment in Nigeria. The… October 29, 2020 In "News" To create AGSMEIS non-interest fund To increase productivity, create jobs, engender inclusive growth The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has unveiled series of guidelines for Non-Interest Financial Institutions under its Agri-Business, Small and Medium Enterprise Investment Scheme (AGSMEIS), Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund (MSMEDF), the Accelerated Agricultural Development… July 15, 2020 In "Business" When the Federal Government approved the establishment of the N75 billion Nigerian Youth Investment Fund (NYIF), hundreds of thousands young Nigerians were excited about the innovation. They believe it could reduce the increasing unemployment rate, and the general economic hardship now worsened by the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, in the country. August 11, 2020 In "Business"