British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday congratulated Joe Biden “on his election” as US president and Biden’s running mate Kamala Harris “on her historic achievement”. “The US is our most important ally and I look forward to working closely together on our shared priorities, from climate change to trade and security,” Johnson tweeted, after US networks called the race for Biden over President Donald Trump. The prime minister has had strained ties with Biden and with former president Barack Obama, but Downing Street has been keen to stress the common interests still enduring in the US-British “special relationship” after Trump’s stormy presidency. In a statement, Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said: “President Trump fought hard in what proved a close contest.” He anticipated working with the Biden administration on issues such as the Covid-19 pandemic, as Britain prepares to take over the G7 presidency next year and to host the UN’s next global climate policy gathering, COP 26. Biden has vowed to rejoin the UN’s Paris Agreement on climate change after Trump abandoned it. Raab added: “The friendship between the UK and US has always been a force for good in the world.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Political leaders from around the world were quick to congratulate Joe Biden after US networks declared him the winner of the bitter White House race over President Donald Trump. As crowds poured onto the streets of Washington and other cities in exuberant celebration and former US president Barack Obama hailed… November 7, 2020 In "Foreign" European Union leaders Charles Michel and Ursula von der Leyen hailed Joe Biden's election as president of the United States on Saturday and called for stronger transatlantic ties. "I warmly congratulate Mr Joe Biden on his victory in the US presidential election and look forward to meeting him at the… November 7, 2020 In "Foreign" French President Emmanuel Macron on Saturday congratulated US president-elect Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris on their election victory. "We have a lot to do to overcome today’s challenges. Let's work together!" Macron tweeted, in French and English, after major US media networks announced Biden's victory over incumbent… November 7, 2020 In "Foreign"