I am sure the government would make an excuse by saying they are not against promoters of lawful protest. The EndSARS protest as admitted by government is lawful and that is why they have acceded to the request forward by the protesters. I do not see any justification for going after the promoters of the protest. However if government has information that the promoters are the people that sponsored the hoodlums that hijacked the protest to launch violent attacks and destruction of private and public properties in Lagos and other parts of the country, then the government will be justified in going after those promoters that it suspects engaged in those illegal activities. No, the tribunals are not looking into that aspect of the protest. The terms of reference of the various panels are limited in scope. My understanding is that the panels are to identify victims of abuse and extra-judicial killings by SARS officers, carry out inquiries in respect of complaints by members of the public, evaluate evidence provided and draw conclusions. They panel is also expected to make recommendations to government. So the role of the panels is limited. Like I said government has to be careful and differentiate between sponsors of Lekki protest, which they themselves have admitted is lawful, as against those they have evidence against that they actually promoted and sponsored those that engaged in vandalism. Unless federal government is able to show that these people were responsible or promoted the destruction of properties, then it is justified. But if it’s a blanket action, then it will be unlawful and unconstitutional for government to embark on such voyage. If government can identified that A or B, sponsored the burning of the High Court of Lagos, sponsored persons who burnt the NPA building, then it would be justified in taking these actions. But the government itself must be careful in dealing with this kind of matter. Those affected should not hesitate to go to court to enforce their rights. That is the way of the rule of law. The government has a responsibility and obligation to the generality of the people and the individuals too have their fundamental rights. If federal government cannot show that these people promoted destruction anywhere, then it has no business clamping down on their account. I believe this will also affect the tribunal sittings because people will now be afraid to give evidence. Some of them will reason that if government can go after their genuine sponsors, then they are not safe. Their thinking would be ‘’If people who have money and sponsored us against SARS, are being clamp down, what will happen to us in the next two to three weeks if we give evidence at the tribunal.” So I think the current government’s decision to go after promoters of EndSARS will actually be counterproductive to the desired expectations from the tribunals. That is the problem with the police architecture of our country. The name is Nigeria police; whether they put or remove force, the police is supposed to be the police of the federal government of Nigeria since we do not have state police. If in the course of duty, police commits an error, both the federal and the state government, could compensate the victims. We practice a federal police system, so for that reason, the first entity to be responsible is the federal government. In this case, it was at the mandate of the federal government that each of the states set up their panels, so there must be cooperation between the two otherwise victims will go uncompensated. This is where sometimes I believe that government work at cross purpose. When the selection of youth representative for the Lagos panel was being done, nobody was aware that one of the persons selected would be a subject of investigation. I think the issue can easily be resolved and the person in question allowed to returning back to her role. Really if there are genuine protesters, those are the type of people that government should not go after. I believe that government must have done a blanket clampdown and when they finish investigation, they would let go of genuine protesters. The problem is with lack of investigation before carrying out action. Most people do not actually know how government operates and that is why government’s actions are often misinterpreted. When things happen, government and police approach is to arrest everyone within the vicinity of the crime and then allow the suspects to prove their innocence. I actually agree with you but I am only limiting the issue to our Nigerian factor where investigation commences with arrest. In Nigeria if you don’t like anyone, you just report that person to the police and he will be arrested. It is a Nigerian system which must be corrected. I am only telling you how the Nigerian security operatives operate. They just round everybody up and starting sifting them. That is a very wrong approach. I don’t think the order was improper. The court simply said the order would last for 90 days. The number of the days is actually irrelevant. The person who the order effects can actually go to the court to have the order set aside anytime. I have faith in the various EnSARS tribunals. The point is, after recommendation, what happens? This is why the media must follow up and ensure that the recommendations are implemented. Once nobody is talking about the issue, the matter wll simply die. Vanguard News Nigeria SANs claim suppression of protesters’ rights By Nnamdi Ojiego The freezing of bank accounts belonging to 20 youths described as #EndSARS promoters by the Federal Government, Saturday, attracted criticisms from senior lawyers, who accused the government of suppressing the rights of protesters. Meanwhile, representatives of youths in Lagos State Judicial… November 8, 2020 In "SARS Update" …International Criminal Court opens inquiry into ‘crimes’ committed during #EndSARS protests …Ministers from South-West submit report to FEC, ask FG to probe military involvement in Lekki shootings …Seek compensation for affected SMEs, support for Lagos State Govt …Obasanjo blames #EndSARS protest on poor investment in youth devt …Ozekhome, other activists,… November 5, 2020 In "News" …FG trying to silence me by freezing my account, says #EndSARS activist …Everyone has right to protest — UN …It’s in your interest to keep peace, Buhari tells youths By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Ikechukwu Nnochiri & Luminous Jannamike The Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, human rights activists, Civil Soceity Organisations, CSOs, and… November 10, 2020 In "News"