Following the dissolution of the joint ownership of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) by Osun and Oyo State Government, the former has assured its citizens that it was not shortchanged in the new terms of management spelt out by the National University Commission, (NUC). It added that indigenes of the state working at the College of Health Sciences in Osogbo and the teaching hospital ceded to the state, as well as those in the main campus in Ogbomoso, Oyo State were assured of the security of their jobs nor would they face any intimidation. A statement issued by the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode on Saturday said students of Osun extraction would not also be subjected to fees differential while workers of Oyo extraction working in Osun too were assured of their job security too. It added further that the LAUTECH teaching hospital, ceded to Osun, is an independent institution is not affected by the dissolution, hence, it would continue to render services to the populace. “Osun State Government wishes to assure its citizens that the dissolution of its joint ownership of LAUTECH, following new terms of management spelt out by the National University Commission (NUC), is in no way skewed against the state. “All workers of Osun extraction either in the College of Health Sciences and LAUTECH ceded to Osun or those in Ogbomoso are assured of job security. There will be no intimidation or discrimination against them in the discharge of their duties. “The agreement states that indigenes of Oyo and Osun State working in either of the two entities will retain all their rights and obligations stipulated in their letters of engagements, therefore the State Government of Osun wishes to inform citizens that there is no need to fret about the dissolution, as all workers of Osun extraction are assured of the security of their jobs. “Osun Students will also not be subjected to fees or admission differentials. They will pay the same tuition fees as their Oyo counterparts. The agreement ceded the LAUTECH Teaching Hospital and all its assets to Osun. Therefore, all landed properties and movable assets located at the College of Health Sciences in Osogbo,  including Mercyland Hospital and Ilie are now properties of the State of Osun. LAUTECH Teaching Hospital, which is an independent organisation, has not been affected by this dissolution, and will therefore continue to render necessary services to our people. “Citizens are therefore advised to continue to cooperate with the government to develop our institutions”, it reads. The University was established in 1990 by the old Oyo State Government with the main campus located in Ogbomoso. The teaching hospital was subsequently established in Osogbo. However, when Osun State was carved out of the old Oyo State in 1991, both states became joint owners of the institution. Both Osun and Oyo states have mutually agreed that the joint ownership of LAUTECH be formally dissolved following extensive mediation by the National Universities Commission (NUC), on the need to restore tranquillity and conducive learning environment in both institutions. Vanguard News Nigeria By Shina Abubakar - Osogbo Indigenes of Osun State working at the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, have raised an alarm of a purported attack on the Vice-Chancellor of the University, Professor Michael Ologunde by some Oyo state indigenes over the protracted crisis in the school. It was… October 13, 2019 In "News" College of Health Sciences To Osun  By Joseph Erunke   OSUN State Government has lost its joint ownership of Ladoke Akintola University of Science and Technology LAUTECH with Oyo State Government as the National Universities Commission, NUC,has given the latter full ownership while it stopped the former. The commission on… November 20, 2020 In "News" By Joseph Erunke - Abuja Osun State Government has lost its joint ownership of Ladoke Akintola University of Science and Technology LAUTECH with Oyo State Government as the National Universities Commission, NUC, has given the latter full ownership while it stopped the former. The commission on Friday, said henceforth, Oyo… November 20, 2020 In "Education"