Abuja— President Muhammadu Buhari has described Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State’s defection from Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, to All Progressives Congress, APC, as a bold move that is based on matters of principles. A statement by Malam Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, to President Buhari, quoted the President as saying so. Umahi, along with members of his cabinet, on Tuesday, dumped PDP for APC, citing injustice to the South-East by his former political party, a move that will be formalised on Thursday, November 19. In the statement, the President said: “I am proud of Governor David Umahi for taking this bold decision in accordance with his conscience and principles, rather than any external influence or coercion. “Good governance is very important to us in the APC, and I’m glad that the governor has cited this as a major factor in his decision to join us. “I urge our citizens to pay less emphasis on identity politics if we want our democracy to make a positive impact on our country. “With men like Umahi, I foresee a brighter future for our democracy because the voters will be more motivated by performance records of parties and their candidates. “Let me once again commend the boldness of Governor Umahi for taking this courageous decision in a country where principles are in short supply among many. “I know people might call him names, but that is the price men of principles have to pay for acting according to their conscience and convictions,” he concluded on Umahi’s defection to APC. Vanguard News Nigeria By Peter Okutu The member representing Ezza South/Ikwo Federal Constituency, Ebonyi State in the House of Representatives, Hon Chinedu Ogah has commended the state Governor, Chief David Umahi for defecting to the All Progressives Congress (APC). There were rumours that Umahi has defected to the APC after meeting several leaders… October 17, 2020 In "Politics" An All Progressives Congress (APC) Chieftain, Mr Osita Okechukwu, has hailed the defection of Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the party, describing it as a welcome development. Okechukwu, in a statement issued in Abuja on Wednesday, said that the governor had made a… November 18, 2020 In "News" Mr Uchenna Orji, Ebonyi Commissioner for Information and Orientation has said that only Gov Dave Umahi would decide if he would leave the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or not. Orji made the disclosure in Abakaliki on Sunday while reacting to the statement by the All Progressives Congress (APC) that the… November 9, 2020 In "News"