 The recommendation came after Prof Ekanola polled 275 votes beating other four contestants to the position. The Senate arrived at the decision after a meeting it held on Monday. Other contestants for the position included Professor Olanike Adeyemo, Deputy Vice Chancellor, Research Innovation and Strategic Partnerships)who scored13 votes, Prof. A. Oluleye, former Dean, Fauclty of Technology, with 80 votes, Prof. Adigun Agbaje, Former Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academic)
scored 15 votes and Prof Gbemisola Oke, former Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academic, got 14 votes. The election which held at the International Conference Centre, UI was presided over by the Provost, College of Medicine, Prof. Olayinka Omigbodun. According to the Senate, “It was, as expected, a tough meeting but one thoroughly guided by adherence to standard procedures. First Senate decided that the process would be, not by consensus but by voting.”
“Arriving on this agreement took about two hours of discussion.” The Senate said, it called for nominations and seconding of nominations from members. According to speakers at the meeting, it was important that Senate took a united decision with demonstrated transparency in order to guard the autonomy of the university and prevent interference from government and politicians. Members of Senate were therefore duly accredited afresh, and voting took place through secret ballot. The Senate of the University of Ibadan will hold a special meeting on Monday, 30th Nov. 2020, to select one of its members as Acting Vice-Chancellor. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that this came as a result of a letter from the National Universities Commission (NUC) directing the… November 28, 2020 In "News" By Adesina Wahab and Adeola Badru Eighteen professors, 11 of them from the University of Ibadan, UI, are now in the race to become the next Vice Chancellor of the institution, checks by our correspondent have revealed. Apart from the 11 applicants from UI, there are three from the University… September 28, 2020 In "Education" By Adesina Wahab and Adeola Badru Lagos State University (LASU) has elected members of Senate/Governing Council Vice Chancellor Selection Committee to screen and select the institution's next Vice Chancellor. The elected members of the committee are; Professors Barakat Animashaun, Olatunde Owolabi and Babatunde Yusuf. Vanguard can confirm that the University's… September 28, 2020 In "Education"