Nigerian artiste, Damini Ogulu, popularly known as Burna Boy, has emerged the first Nigerian artiste to be nominated for the Grammy awards in two consecutive years. The ‘Wonderful’ crooner was nominated in the Best Global Music category of the 62nd Grammys with his African Giant album, which he lost to Angelique Kidjo, Beninese singer and songwriter, who had won the Grammys four times. According to the list released by Grammy Awards organisers, Burna Boy’s new album is presently nominated in the Best Global Music category alongside albums FU CHRONICLES by Antibalas, AGORA by Bebel Gilberto, LOVE LETTERS by Anoushka Shankar and AMADJAR by Tinariwen. In reaction to his second Grammys nomination. Burna Boy took to his Twitter page and wrote “Another one.” The album, “Twice as Tall,” is the fifth and was released on August 14, by Spaceship Entertainment, Atlantic Records and Warner Music. The 15-track album is a mixture of Afrobeats, dancehall, pop and hip hop. Two other Nigerian artistes, Tiwa Savage and Ayodeji Balogun, popularly known as Wizkid, also featured on the 63rd Grammys nominee list with vocals on Cold Play’s album and ‘Brown Skin Girl’ video where Beyonce featured Wizkid. Sade Adu is the only Nigerian-born artiste who has received the coveted award four times, while artistes like King Sunny Ade (KSA), Femi Kuti, Seun Kuti, Babatunde Olatunji were nominated for their original works. The 63rd Annual Grammy Awards ceremony will be held on January 31, 2021, at the Staples Centre in Los Angeles, US. It will recognise the best recordings, compositions and artistes of the eligibility year, running from September 1, 2019, to August 31, 2020. Vanguard News Nigeria Fans have continued to flood social media with congratulatory messages following Afro-fusion star, Damini Ogulu, aka Burna Boy’s Grammy nomination. November 21, 2019 In "Entertainment" By Rasheed Sobowale Nigerian musician (singer and songwriter), Burna Boy has lost the 62nd Grammy Award to Beninese, Angélique Kidjo. Real name, Damini Ebunoluwa Ogulu, Burna Boy's first studio album titled "African Giant" was nominated in the 2020 World Music Album Award category along with others including; GECE Altin Gün … January 27, 2020 In "Entertainment" He was nominated in the ‘Best World Music Album’ category for his album ‘African Giant’ which also featured Angelique Kidjo who was nominated in the same category. November 22, 2019 In "Entertainment"