Egypt on Saturday announced the unearthing of a cache of ancient coffins at a major necropolis near Cairo, the second such find in the same area this year. Tourism and Antiquities Minister Khaled al-Anani said Egyptian archaeologists had found over 100 sealed, intact human coffins and 40 funerary masks and statues in three shafts at the Saqqara necropolis near the famed pyramid of King Djoser. The coffins have been closed for over 2,500 years. In October, Egypt announced the discovery of 59 well-preserved and colourfully decorated ancient coffins in the same area. “Saqqara has shown only 1 per cent of what it has. “If we continue our excavations, various human and animal tombs are expected to be found in it. It’s a very rich area. “The artefacts announced Saturday date back to ancient Egypt’s Late Period and the Ptolemaic era,” al-Anani said at a televised news conference at the site. According to al-Anani, the collection would be put on show at Egypt’s three main museums, including the Grand Egyptian Museum being built next to the Giza pyramids. Egypt has in recent years announced a string of archaeological discoveries in several parts of the nation in an attempt to revive its battered tourism industry, which is a main source of national income. Tourism has been hard hit since the 2011 uprising against long-time dictator Hosny Mubarak and the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. (dpa/NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria Egypt announced the discovery of a large collection of intact and well-preserved coffins at a major necropolis near Cairo that date back 2,600 years. Tourism and Antiquities Minister Khaled al-Anani said Egyptian archaeologists found three shafts containing 59 sealed sarcophagi at the Saqqara necropolis near the famed pyramid of King… October 4, 2020 In "News" At least 13 coffins believed to contain human mummies were unearthed from a well in Egypt where they had rested undisturbed for more than 2,500 years. The trove of sarcophagi was uncovered last week during an excavation in the Saqqara necropolis, an ancient burial ground about 20 miles south of… September 14, 2020 In "News" Egypt has announced the discovery of a collection of more than 13 intact sealed coffins, dating back to 2,500 years ago. September 7, 2020 In "Foreign"