As United States begins election today, Former Aviation Minister, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, Tuesday prayed for God’s intervention, asking him to make his friend President Donald Trump victorious in the ongoing election. Trump who is a Republican is contesting against, former Vice-President Joe Biden, a Democrats. Biden according to yesterday’s report was leading by a narrower margin in many key states and has multiple paths to victory. Trump’s route to the required 270 votes is thinner but still viable, meaning either candidate could win. However, Trump’s campaign is counting on a surge in Election Day turnout from his supporters to fuel the President’s path to reelection. Biden is ahead in sufficient swing states to allow multiple routes to the 270 electoral votes needed to win the White House, including through the Sun Belt and the Midwest. Praying for his friend, Fani-Kayode said: “Let your name be glorified today O Lord and let your son and servant President Donald J. Trump, prevail. We pray this in Jesus name. The God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob is with you. The Holy One of Israel is your strength. He is a man of war and He is irresistible in battle. He is your shield, your glory and the lifter of your head! He will show Himself mighty today! Congratulations in advance!”. vanguardngr.com Trump, Biden in decisive race By Henry Ojelu ABOUT 236 million Americans will today decide between President Donald Trump and former Vice-President Joe Biden who will lead the country in the next four years. Already, more than 94 million people have cast their ballots in early voting, putting the country… November 3, 2020 In "Foreign" US President Donald Trump speaks with reporters aboard Air Force One as he flies from Manchester, New Hampshire to Joint Base Andrews in Maryland, August 28, 2020, following a campaign rally. September 27, 2020 In "Foreign" A former aviation Minister and foremost chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode has likened United States president, Donald Trump to biblical characters used by God to deliver nations and set the oppress free. October 11, 2020 In "News"