The Nigeria Customs Service Strike Force, Zone B on Tuesday says it has arrested two suspected smugglers and seized counterfeit goods worth N24.3 million Duty Paid Value, DPV. This was also as it vowed to clamp down on the hideouts and wares of the smugglers in order to to the nearest minimum. The Deputy Controller General, Olorukoba Ussaini Aliyu stated this while displaying some of the seizure to newsmen in Kano on Tuesday. Aliyu warned the smugglers to desist from the activities and get a legitimate trade or relocate from the zone as he said no hiding place for the smugglers in the area. According to him, “No way for them. Wherever they go, they have us to contend with. We have a message for them (smugglers) that they get a genuine legitimate trade or relocate. We will not stop at picking their wares, we will chase and trace them to ensure they are tried in the court and ensure they are jailed. “We are not leaving any stone unturned. Whoever dare us will have him or herself to blame. “We are here on the orders of the Comptroller-General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (Retd) to ensure that anything smuggling is nipped in the bud if not in totality but to the bearest minimum. “We have made these seizure right before you here in the last three weeks and two suspected smugglers were also arrested,” Aliyu however said. Items seized include bales of second hand clothes, foreign rice, vegetable oils, spaghetti and fake drugs amongst Vanguard News Nigeria THE Nigerian Customs Service, NCS, Border Drill Operation Sector 4, Katsina, said it seized various goods with Duty Paid Value, DPV, of N3.2 billion, between January and May 2020. June 17, 2020 In "Business" Smuggling refers to the clandestine transportation of goods or persons past a certain point, or across international borders, in violation of applicable laws or other regulations. It is also defined as an act of importing or exporting goods illegally. January 16, 2011 In "Special Report" The Federal Operations Unit (FOU) Zone C of the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS)  in Owerri said it had seized eight exotic cars and other items whose owners refused to pay duties, defrauding the Federal Government of about N442 millio March 29, 2019 In "News"