President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has expressed optimism that Nigeria’s economy was being steered on the path of growth, despite the prevailing challenges. Lawan, who spoke at the Nigeria/International Monetary Fund(IMF) Article lV Consultation virtual exercise yesterday, said the exercise was a “veritable platform to share our experiences on steering our economy on the path of growth, despite challenges.” Itemising efforts being made by the federal government at promoting economic growth and reducing poverty in the country, the Senate president told the participants at the virtual exercise that Nigeria had to confront the challenge of limited resources, not just because of unpredictable revenue from oil, but also because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The problems have made us improve our efforts in the prudent management of resources, and in transparency and accountability. “Our focus has been on sustaining investments in infrastructure and utilities, trusting in their capacities to stimulate economic activities, enhance growth, and thereafter improve the people’s standard of living. “Government has continued with its anti-corruption crusade, aside a pledge to ensure discipline in the public expenditure process. “Our recent experiences call for further caution in the management of resources, just as it has been another reminder of the need to increase the drive for diversification. “Beyond Oil, greater regard is now being paid to the steel, the mining and the agriculture sectors. The potentials in these sectors are significant for revenue generation, and for job creation. They are additionally valuable in the bid to engage critical sections of the population, especially the youth,” Lawan said. The Senate President said the youth question had lately been at the centre of national conversation, flowing from the #EndSARS protests. “We believe that the recent crisis we had in the form of youth protest has also given us an additional idea of how much we need to pay attention to the needs of the youths in the country. “Government has ended SARS, and now taking steps towards improving social and economic needs of youth. “One of such is the re-launch/flag off of the National Young Farmers Scheme (NYFS), by the President on 9th November 2020. “Our youth have become much more involved, and require greater recognition, in terms of social and economic engagement. “The government has been additionally charged to continue with policies that seek to integrate them into the scheme of things. “In addition to NYFS is the National Youth Innovation Programme an initiative of the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development which has capacity to generate 25 Billion annually over the next three years; among others. “We prioritize implementation, to show a sustained commitment to policies and programmes,” Lawan said. The Senate President said the National Assembly had been as responsive as possible in the provision of legislative support to people-oriented proposals. Vanguard News Nigeria By Henry Umoru PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan has assured that the National Assembly will prioritize the allocation of resources for youth development despite the present economic challenges faced by the country owing to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking yesterday in Abuja in a Virtual Conference… September 11, 2020 In "News" PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan said Wednesday that  the National Assembly has begun  consultation with the Executive arm of government on a new version of the Petroleum Industry Bill, PIB  to be introduced in the ninth National Assembly February 5, 2020 In "News" Buhari to Present 2021 Budget Next Week — Senate Says Nigeria was confronted with over $14 Billion Revenue Gap because of Over Dependence on Oil Confirms receipt of PIB By Henry Umoru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari will next week present to the Joint National Assembly, the 2021 Appropriation Bill… September 29, 2020 In "News"