An action-packed political thriller produced by Dr. Rotimi Adelola and starring actors such as Akin Lewis, Lateef Adedimeji, Bimbo Oshin, Dele Odule, Taiwo Ibikunle and many other talented thespians, ‘The New Patriot’ is set to hit the screens soon. The movie which was directed by Adebayo Tijani and Terry Ayebo talks about how the youths are disenchanted with the mismanagement, bad governance and endemic corruption in their tiny country – Republic of Aruguna, a colony of a big populous 3rd world country. A covert team of vibrant youths led by Lateef Adedimeji, hide its identity and deploys unorthodox strategy to tackle the mindless, corrupt and deadly power brokers in the Republic of Aruguna. This unorthodox strategy creates tension nationwide. Ultimately, the youths snatch the lever of political power from the old folks and elect a female youth as the new President of the Republic of Aruguna. According to the producer, Rotimi Adelola, “The New Patriots is an engaging movie, entertaining and is designed to be a catalyst for social change.” Rotimi Adelola who also wrote the story, holds a PhD in Psychology of the University of Ibadan and is an Alumnus of the Harvard-Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University and the Tunde Kelani’s Film School, Mainframe Media and Film Institute, from where he graduated in 2017. Durot Movies and Number 9 film studio produced the movie. Both companies are not new to film production in Nigeria. In 2016, Durot Movies powered the production of Orioye, a short Yoruba movie. The movie demonstrated the inherent dangers of greed and avarice of Kingmakers in the choice and installation of a new King in a small rural community. Also In 2018, the two companies co-produced Kedere (No Hiding Place) which explored the negative effects of superstitious parental beliefs and pronouncement on a child’s worldview and conduct, even till adulthood. Other productions of the studio include Ladies’ Chat – a talk show on trending issues concerning ladies, Psychotechnology of Success, a series of short lectures on the application of psychological principles to personal life. Vanguard News Nigeria All is set for the release of new movie, ‘The Reunion’ across cinemas nationwide. The movie which is Fojo Media Productions' debut outing in the cinemas stars Mercy Johnson-Okojie, Lilian Esoro, Tana Adelana, Mercy Aigbe, Jide Kosoko, Frededrick Leonard, Chioma Emeruah Chigul, Jaiye Kuti, Femi Jacobs, Lateef Adedimeji, Steve Onu… July 15, 2019 In "Entertainment" The Director, Centre for Peace and Strategic Studies, CPSS, University of Ilorin, Dr. Mahfouz Adedimeji, has urged Nigerians to embrace functional dispute resolution strategies to stem the violent conflicts in the country, saying this become necessary because conflict is an inevitable phenomenon in human society. September 22, 2014 In "News" The permanent power blackout being experienced in some local government areas in the Southern Senatorial District of Ondo State and Idanre in the Central Senatorial District may soon be a thing of the past following agreement reached by the State Government and the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) the outfit… March 27, 2016 In "News"