…Says she is gifted, talented, intelligent and beautiful. She speaks 6 languages fluently and was highly successful as an international model and beauty Queen and in other fields of commerce and human endeavour long before meeting her husband President Donald Trump. Despite all the insults and misrepresentations meted out to her, her family, her son and her husband she has never said a word or responded to her haters and detractors. Through it all she remained undaunted, focused, strong, dignified, resilient and well above them all even in the most trying times. Her silence, loyalty and self-respect was her strength and shield. She supported her husband through thick and thin and never waivered. She never sought to expose his weaknesses or to humiliate, disrespect and undermine him. She guarded him jealously even as she protected her son Baron and shielded him from public glare and the evil eye. Dutiful, respectful and humble: a good mother and a good wife. This is a woman of class and substance. This is the real deal. This is a lady. I have no doubt that this is Donald Trump’s greatest blessing and the source of his pride, strength and joy. First Lady Melania Trump Vanguard News Nigeria THIS pretty but quiet woman has been trending for e few weeks now on the Nigerian blogosphere, thanks to one controversy after another- all of them related to ex, Femi Fani Kayode. August 11, 2015 In "Feminista" ...Says Fani-Kayode has never beaten me in 23 years of our marriage ...Am still his wife, we don't have any problem in our marriage ... Gina is like a mother to Fani-Kayode — Sources By Idowu Bankole Mrs Regina Fani-Kayode, the legal wife of a former Minister of Aviation and… September 24, 2020 In "News" By Idowu Bankole Human rights activists and Convener of Concerned Nigerians Group, Deji Adeyanju who is a close confidant of former minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode and his wife, Precious Fani-Kayode, yesterday in a series of tweets debunked the rumours making the round that domestic violence was responsible for… September 18, 2020 In "News"