The Lagos State Police Command has expressed readiness to resist any form of protest, peaceful or otherwise, noting that the state was still smarting from the havoc wreaked on it in the wake of the #EndSARS protests that spread across the country. The Command said the warning became necessary because the information from intelligence reports have it that there were plans by some persons to cause unrest in the state. The spokesperson of the state police command, Superintendent Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said this in a statement, noting that processions or gatherings under any guise or nomenclature in Lagos State would not be allowed. Adejobi said based on reports gathered from relevant intelligence agencies, “some unpatrioric elements or group of people” have concluded plans to orchestrate another set of violence in the state “which has been analysed as dangerous and counterproductive”. According to him, “Premised on this, the command, therefore, wishes to warn any individuals, group of students or any groups who might want to stage any form of protest, either peaceful or violent, or gathering whatsoever, to desist. “The police and other security agencies will collectively and tactically resist any security threats or threats to public peace, which might be triggered by protest or protesters in Lagos State. “The Police Command, emphatically, warns parents and guardians to discourage their children or wards from embarking on any protest in the state as the possibility of hijacking it by armed hoodlums to cause grieve and pains like the recent past is evident. “We encourage the general public to ignore any call for protest and go about their lawful businesses as all hands are on deck to maintain law and order and public safety across the length and breadth of the state.” VANGUARD By Nwafor Sunday Lagos state Police command has banned any form of protest in the state. Disclosing this in a statement signed by the Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, the force argued that it made the decision following new development of violent attacks on police officers and men… October 20, 2020 In "SARS Update" …Lagos, Ondo, Ekiti, Osun, Imo, Plateau impose 24-hr curfew …Two policemen, two civilians killed in Lagos; 4 police stations, vehicles burnt …Six feared killed in Dutse-Alhaji, as police station set ablaze …IGP orders deployment of anti-riot police officers, Charges officers to protect lives …Protesters defy curfew in Edo, govt insists… October 21, 2020 In "SARS Update" …Ogun, Ekiti, Enugu, Delta raise probe panels on police brutality …I watched helplessly as stray bullet killed my driver – Victim’s boss during Sanwo-Olu’s visit …Woman arrested over death of 2 demonstrators By Our Reporters #ENDSARS protests took a deadly turn, yesterday, after Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State was… October 18, 2020 In "SARS Update"