The Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, yesterday assured road users in Imo state of their safety during the yuletide celebration in the state. The Imo state sector commander, Mr Roland Onamusi, spoke in Owerri, while flagging off the 2020 Ember month safety campaign alongside other security agencies in the state. He, however, said in achieving this that motorists ought to adhere to the traffic rules and regulations. According to Onamusi, who briefly said: “The condition of our roads and other public utilities as well as the demands of our health facilities are issues that have a socio-economic and psychological impact all of us. “Journey that are ordinarily expected to be simple, end up becoming disastrous and this safety campaign is a wake-up call to every Nigerian to ensure that our roads are safe. “We are aware of the traffic challenges associated with yuletide season, we are ready to do our best in ensuring accident-free society, but motorists must be cautious and obey traffic rules.” Others who joined in the flag-off of the safety campaign included the Zonal Commanding Officer Enugu Mr Owoimaha Udoma, commissioner of Police, Isaac Akinmoyede, Commandant of NSCDC Imo Command, Mr Danjuma Elisha and the Deputy Comptroller of Immigration Nkechi Ugwu as well as the representative of Imo state government, the Commissioner for Transport, Rex Anunobi among others. Vanguard News Nigeria The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, has urged Nigerians to be vigilant against the menace of road accidents in the country. Oyeyemi who disclosed in a statement by the Corps Public Education Officer, Mr Bisi Kazeem on Tuesday in Abuja added that joint effort remained… December 31, 2019 In "News" Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, has commenced intensive special patrol of highways across the nation in order to ensure sanity on the roads and curb the spate of avoidable road crashes during this year’s Easter celebrations. April 6, 2012 In "News" The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) has cautioned against the belief by some people, including commuters, of the existence of blood-sucking demons that kill travellers on the road during the yuletide. November 22, 2018 In "News"