The ruling All Progressives Congress APC has convened an emergency meeting of its National Executive Committee NEC apparently to evaluate the performance of its Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee and possibly extend its six-month mandate which ends by December 25. Spokesman of the party, Yekini Nabena in a late-Sunday statement said the meeting which is slated for December 5 would hold virtually and would be coordinated from the Presidential Villa. The statement reads; “An emergency meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been scheduled for Tuesday, 8th December, 2020. “In a formal invitation sent to APC NEC members by the National Secretary of the Party’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe, the meeting will ‘review the Party’s position and set agenda for the Party’s next move.’ “In line with the COVID-19 public health protocols, the APC NEC meeting will be virtual. Login details will be sent to APC NEC members in due course. The meeting is slated for 11am at the Council Chamber, State House, Abuja”. Vanguardngr.com ...Party now into comedy, not opposition, says APC chieftain By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The All Progressives Congress (APC) has lambasted the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for attempting to dabble into its internal affairs, saying it would never copy the opposition party's style of trampling on its own Constitution. "While… June 28, 2020 In "Politics" Reasons President Muhammadu Buhari moved against the suspended National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, emerged last night, as the  National Executive Committee, NEC, wielded the big stick to check the crisis ravaging the party and avert what the President described as self-destruction. June 26, 2020 In "Politics" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru THE National Executive Committee, NEC, of the All Progressives Congress, APC, has dissolved the National Working Committee, NWC of the party. NEC has also appointed the Yobe State Governor, Mai Malla Buni as the Chairman, Caretaker /Convention Committee Governor Buni, who was the former Secretary of the… June 25, 2020 In "Politics"