The ultimate destination for lovers of ‘The Beautiful Game’is Supersport as all the matches will be broadcast live. Inter Milan succumbed to Real Madrid 0-2 last Thursday in the Champions League. Today’s fixture against Sassuolo in Seria A, could just offer Inter an opportunity to redeem their battered image. The match is, no doubt, Italy’s top game of the weekend is the Round 9 opener this afternoon, as Sassuolo welcome Internazionale to the MAPEI Stadium. The Neroverdi have been one of Serie A’s surprise packages so far this season and will be eager to underline that status with a victory over the Nerazzurri – something they have managed in four of their last six home matches against Inter. Sassuolo manager Roberto De Zerbi has urged his team to enjoy their current situation, while also keeping their heads down and sticking to the principles that have worked so well for them thus far in 2020-21. “We have to enter the pitch with the desire to play well, to win, to take care of the details and without any form of superficiality and carelessness,” he explained. “We have to live the moment with happiness and enthusiasm, not neglecting anything in our attention, not thinking of ourselves as better than we actually are. “If we were to feel better, I would lose my head. At the same time, we must play with joy and awareness of the fact that everything we are doing we have conquered; no one is giving us anything.” Elsewhere in Italy this weekend champions Juventus will fancy their chances of picking up three points on the road when they visit Stadio Ciro Vigorito to take on Benevento. Juve manager Andrea Pirlo has called on his players to be “less selfish” in their outlook. Vanguard News Nigeria AC Milan took third place in Serie A from city rivals Inter on Saturday as Gennaro Gattuso's men continued their fine run of form with a narrow 1-0 win over Sassuolo. March 2, 2019 In "Sports" Juventus travel to Napoli on Sunday looking to close the book on a Serie A title race that has hardly looked in doubt since the opening day of the season. February 28, 2019 In "Sports" A late Edin Dzeko stunner got AS Roma off the mark in their Serie A campaign at Torino on Sunday but Inter Milan made the worst possible start with a 1-0 loss at Sassuolo. August 20, 2018 In "Sports"