On Tuesday, 13th October, 2020, Mayen, wife of Judex Okoro the Sun newspaper Correspondent in Cross River was abducted at Big Qua Town,  the heart of Calabar Municipality by three gunmen.  As at the time of writing this report on Thursday morning, where the mother of four was taken to  was yet to be  known. This is the trend of events in Calabar, the Cross River State capital in the past few years  with kidnapping taking place every every time and this  has effectively turned the city  from its once glorious status as the paradise city where many found solace and safety to an ignoble   den  of kidnappers and robbers who rob, abduct, kill and maim  at will. Teachers, medical doctors, pastors, motor mechanics, drivers, journalists, students and anyone who can afford a few  thousands are all targets. This is different from  kidnappers  in other places who target the rich and expatriates with big bank accounts who could  cough out millions of money as ransom.  Here in Calabar, it is indeed a case of just anyone with few bucks to settle the boys. It is difficult to run a comprehensive  register of those who have been abducted in the recent past as  many as four or five persons have fallen victim on just one street and hardly can anyone in the city say he does not know one or two persons who have been abducted with ransom paid. Recently, the following persons were abducted in the city. Dr Anthony Egbe of the University of Calabar, Mr Efiom Edem Asuquo, Dr Vivien Otu, Mr Felix Ekpenyong  a student and son of  permanent secretary in the state, four Chinese nationals: Kan Jinxi,  Hunji Chan, Jian Jijun,  Chen Quin working for a construction firm, Danatrite  others are   Glory Okon, wife of a well known Calabar man, Abonima, Mrs Agube,  wife of Appeal Court judge, Ms Etim, Ignatius Agube  whose police orderly was killed, Matata twins, Ekanem Iyamba, a broadcaster with FRCN Fm station in Calabar,  and a Cameroonian diplomat whose name was not made available by the police. Some victims have not been lucky to return home alive even after ransom was paid. Among those are Peter Etim, a broadcaster with the state broadcasting station, Cross River Broadcasting Corporation, CRBC, another is a trader,  an eighty-year-old man from Anambra state, Odinka Odinka whose business  mall is located along Target Road.. They have both not been seen several months after they were abducted. Etim was abducted in December 2018 while Odinka was kidnapped in 2019. Another victim. Jones who died in captivity, the hoodlums brought the body in the dead of night and took away the wife who was only released after another ransom was paid which according to the kidnapper was for “suffering” them by dying in captivity. Before now, there had been  abductions of , Seyi  Adekunle,  a Pastor with  Living Faith Church, aka Winners’ Chapel who  was praying with some of his pastors at his church location opposite the Margaret Ekpo International  Airport Calabar to prepare for the next day’s service when gun men stormed the place  and dragged him into one SUV and drove off. Obong Ude, the owner of Udensco filling station located along Eta Agba Road  was abducted and taken to an unknown destination and the family made to cough out some millions of naira as ransom. Within the same period another oil merchant, Chief Agbor  was abducted at Ikotenim   the eastern axis of the city and  a ransom extorted from him before he was set free. The amazing thing about these abductions is the fact that the hoodlums usually storm the homes of their targets both in the day and night  to take their victims  away while a few others are taken close to their homes without any challenge from the plethora of security agents on the roads. The ever bubbling night life in the city has been brought to its knees while many residents assume a low profile life while some have relocated to other places  to avoid the prying eyes of the hoodlums and their informants. These abductions are by no means exhaustive as so many lecturers in the University of Calabar have fallen victims to this nefarious acts, prompting the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, to embark on industrial action to drive the school authorities to beef up security within and around the school. So also are medical doctors in the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital who have become regular  ‘customers’ and cash cows  to the hoodlums. The Nigeria Medical Association, NMA, has several times called their members out on strike to demand for a stop to the abduction of their members The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria in the state led by Dr Lawrence Ekwok had to issue a statement warning the hoodlums to steer clear men of God to avoid incurring the wrath of God through extortion of what he called “blood money from pastors” The State Governor , Senator Ben Ayade  worried by the high rate of kidnappings during his first tenure  sent a Bill to the State House of Assembly to seek death penalty for convicted kidnappers and for the  state to confiscate  property belonging to the convicted kidnappers and this was passed into law. Apart from the anti-kidnapping law, the properties of kidnappers are being demolished . Last month, Mr Alfred Mboto, the Permanent Secretary, State Security Adviser’s Office led a team of police men to demolish several houses belonging to known kidnappers, yet this has not deterred the activities of these hoodlums. On  Monday, 12th October more than twenty hoodlums were arrested in Akpabuyo, in the outskirts of Calabar by soldiers who mounted security checks along the Bakassi – Calabar road    but this does not seem enough deterrent to the kidnappers. The Cross River State Police Commissioner, Mr Abdulahi Jimoh said several hoodlums have been arrested in the recent past and some charged to court and that no effort will be spared in ensuring a crime free Cross River State. “I am using this opportunity to appeal to all those who have criminal intent or who are engaged in criminal activities to abandon  their  heinous ways of life  or relocate to another state.” Vanguard News Nigeria Calabar, Cross River State capital, is famously referred to as “Paradise City” occasioned by the idyllic and tranquil atmosphere prevalent in the city. People from far and wide regularly flock to the city, especially during weekends and holidays, to savour the convivial environment and spectacular cuisine which the city offers. June 19, 2016 In "Crime Alert" At 7.30 am on Wednesday, three expatriates and two Nigerian staff of MeMahon Limited, a building firm executing contract work at Lafarge Cement, formerly Unicem, were abducted on their way to work at Mfamosing by hoodlums at Idundu Bridge, on the outskirts of Calabar, after the driver of the bus… June 26, 2016 In "Crime Alert" •Wondered in forests of wild animals, near death circumstances for 10 days •Relocates from Cross River State •Surprised no action has been taken against kidnappers By Evelyn Usman April 26, 2020, was like every other day for Princess Filia Henshaw Etim, until 7 pm, when an incident that changed the… October 10, 2020 In "Crime Guard"