Minister of Power, Engineer Sale Mamman on Thursday said the Federal Government is working round the clock to improve the electricity voltage and deliver uninterrupted power supply for Nigerians across the country. Mamman stated this during the official commissioning of a New 150MVA power transformer at the Transmission Company of Nigeria Kumbotso substation Kano. He said the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari was working assiduously in ensuring that Nigerians enjoys uninterrupted power supply aimed at boosting the economic growth of the Nation. Engineer Sale Mamman maintained that the new installed 150MVA power transformer would enhance power supply in Kano, Jigawa and other neighbouring states. The Minister added that the Kumbotso substation was among the best substations that supply electricity in the country. In his remarks, Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje said the installation of the new power transformer was timely and aimed at boosting commercial activities in the state. Ganduje represented by his Commissioner for Works and Transportation, Alhaji Garba Unguwar Rimi commended the foresight of the federal government in investing on the power sector geared towards moving the nation forward. Vanguard News Nigeria The Minister of Power, Engr. Sale Mamman has said, the Muhammadu Buhari's next level administration will deliver uninterrupted power supply to Nigeria when all major power projects are completed before the end of its tenure. September 15, 2019 In "News" The Transmission Company of  Nigeria, TCN, announced  that it has completed the installation and commissioning into service of one brand new 300MVA 330/132/33kV power transformer in its Alaoji Transmission Substation, Aba in Abia State. February 19, 2019 In "News" The Transmission Company of Nigeria, TCN, yesterday said congestion at the seaport in Lagos, was responsible for delay in the  installation of transformers to Kumbotso Transmission substation in Kano State. January 23, 2019 In "News"