The senior pastor and general overseer of Omega Fire Ministries International, Apostle Johnson Suleman, before now, knew that Joseph Robinette Biden Jr, the 2020 Presidential candidate of the Democrat would defeat Donald Trump to become the 46th United States President. In a video clip believed to have been published months ago, Suleman emphatically stated that the Lord revealed to him that the incumbent President who ran under the Republican party, would lose the election. He said that Biden would not be a problem but his running mate would be. Suleman said Biden would be impeached and his running mate would take over from him. His words: “America should not joke with the next election, because they will support the opponent of the current president. “Before I go further let me say this, the lord gave me a prophesy last year, two years ago, or so, that Trump will not be re-elected and I was worried. “I prayed and the Lord spoke to me that anything I tell you is to intercede because they will all support Trump’s opponent. “The opponent is not the issue, but his running mate is. The running mate is a lady and if the opponent wins, he will be impeached for the lady to takeover. Their agenda is to humiliate him. They have succeeded in making mockery of him in America….. America will be healed.” If You Don’t Believe in Prophecy, Watch This Exact Prophecy By Apostle Suleman In March 2020 Saying @realDonaldTrump Won’t Be Re-Elected and a Woman Will Be VP May God bless His servant @APOSTLESULEMAN. Outside Scripture, I haven’t seen prophecy as detailed and accurate as this pic.twitter.com/HyZqYEG0yX — Reno Omokri (@renoomokri) November 7, 2020  Vanguard I am sure you have all heard about the accusations against a man of God, Apostle Suleman, by a Canada based stripper who says she feels shortchanged because Pastor Suleman reneged on his promise to marry her. March 18, 2017 In "News" After suffering a drubbing in Iowa and bizarrely conceding he will likely lose New Hampshire's Democratic primary next Tuesday, Joe Biden is under immense pressure to turn his floundering US presidential campaign around. The popular former US vice president has been the national frontrunner for more than a year, but… February 10, 2020 In "News" …Trump, Biden await results in battleground states …Two Nigerians, Agbaje, Oye win Minnesota, District of Columbia By Henry Ojelu with agency report THE excruciatingly close U.S. presidential election hung in the balance yesterday with Democrat Joe Biden leading in two critical Midwestern states that could tip the contest in his… November 5, 2020 In "Foreign"