Benin City, the Edo State capital, was on a standstill on Monday night as Super Eagles players arrived in the ancient city, ahead of their 2021 AFCON qualifier match against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone. The crew led by Super Eagles Chief Coach, Gernot Rohr, also inspected the newly reconstructed Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, venue for the match billed for Friday, November 13th in Benin City. The city also ecstatic over the return of sporting activities, as elated residents watched the players inspect the newly revamped stadium by the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led government. Some others were seen buying customised Nigerian flags and jerseys, special balloons bearing the national colours, vuvuzela, whistles and other musical equipment to cheer their team to victory on the match day. Some residents, who spoke to journalists, commended the Governor Obaseki-led administration for reconstructing the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium which is now connected to 24/7 electricity supply from the CCETC-Ossiomo Power Plant. A resident, Ewere Loveday, said the hosting right for the competitive match was made possible because of the new look of the stadium and upgrade of all facilities including the installation of a Video Assistant Referee (VAR) technology. Vanguard Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, and his assistant, Joseph Yobo are yet to speak to each other ahead of the 2021 African Cup of Nations qualification tie against Sierra Leone later this month. The Nigeria Football Federation, NFF, appointed Yobo as an assistant coach in place of Imama Amapakabo without… March 8, 2020 In "Sports" Nigeria coach Gernot Rohr has praised the attitude of his side after coming from behind to claim a 2-1 victory against the Republic of Benin in Wednesday’s 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying game. Stephane Sessegnon gave the Squirrels the lead two minutes into the match before the Super Eagles… November 14, 2019 In "Sports" Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr has said that injuries and the need to give new players a look have slowed the selection process for the squad that will play against Sierra Leone March 27 in an Africa Cup of Nations qualifying tie in Asaba, Delta State. Rohr, who finished third… February 25, 2020 In "Sports"