President Donald Trump’s chief of staff Mark Meadows has tested positive for Covid-19, US media reported late Friday. Meadows, 61, told people he had coronavirus after the election, CNN reported. He first tested positive on Wednesday, a day after the poll, according to the New York Times. Meadows was part of a crowd in a room at the White House early on Wednesday when Trump spoke to around 150 of his top aides and supporters, the Washington Post reported. Several senior Trump administration officials have contracted the virus in recent weeks, including the president and his wife Melania. Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany and policy advisers Stephen Miller and Hope Hicks are among more than a dozen other senior White House figures to be infected with since the start of October. The United States has been hit harder than any other country by the Covid-19 pandemic since it swept the world at the start of this year. More than 9.7 million people have contracted the virus nationwide, with more than 236,000 dead. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. United States President Donald Trump has been symptom-free for 24 hours and his vital signs are in the normal range, his physician said on Wednesday. Trump was hospitalised for coronavirus complications over the weekend. The president subsequently made his first return to the Oval Office. The ceremonial Marine guard was stationed… October 8, 2020 In "Foreign" President Trump is continuing to improve and will meet with his medical team amid hopes that he will be able to leave the hospital later Monday, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows told Fox News. “Spoke to the President this morning. He continued to improve overnight and is ready… October 6, 2020 In "News" President Donald Trump announced Sunday the emergency authorization of convalescent plasma for COVID-19 patients, in a move he called “a breakthrough,” one of his top health officials called “promising,” and other health experts said needs more study before it’s celebrated. The announcement came after days of White House officials suggesting… August 24, 2020 In "Foreign"