Following the crisis that trailed the selection of a new Vice-Chancellor for the University of Ibadan, UI, that led to the process becoming inconclusive. the National Universities Commission, NUC, has directed the Governing Council of the university to appoint an Acting Vice-Chancellor to take over from the outgoing Vice-Chancellor, Professor Idowu Olayinka, on Monday, November 30. The directive became expedient, following the deadlock in the appointment of a new VC to replace Olayinka, whose term expires on Monday. The Executive Secretary of NUC, Professor Abubakar Rasheed, in a letter dated 27th November 2020 and addressed to the Pro-Chancellor of the University, said the appointment of an acting vice-chancellor was to avoid a vacuum in the administration of the university. The letter, signed by Dr. Suleiman Ramon-Yusuf, Deputy Executive Secretary (Academics) for the Executive Secretary read: “You will please recall the directives of the Honourable Minister of Education on the resolution of the impasse in the process for the appointment of a new vice chancellor for the University of Ibadan. “I write at the behest of the Executive Secretary to convey the Honourable Minister’s further directive on necessary steps to resolve the impasse and restore peace and harmony necessary for the discharge of the university’s core mandate. “The Governing Council of the University of Ibadan is hereby directed to shift its meeting earlier scheduled for 10.00 a.m.on Monday, 30th November 2020 to discuss the issue of appointment of a new vice-chancellor to later in the afternoon on the same day. “The university Senate should convene a special meeting for the purpose of selecting one of its members who is not a candidate in the ongoing process for the selection of a new vice-chancellor, for recommendation to the Governing Council for appointment as acting vice-chancellor for a period of not more than six months as stipulated in section 3(13) and (14 ) of the Universities (Miscellaneous provisions: (Amendment) Act, 2002.” “In view of the fact that the tenure of the incumbent Vice-Chancellor expires on Monday 30th November 2020, it is pertinent for the Governing Council to meet in the afternoon of Monday, 30 November 2020 to consider and approve the appointment of the Senate nominee as acting vice-chancellor in order to avoid a vacuum in the administration of the university. “Following the appointment of an acting vice-chancellor, the outgoing vice-chancellor should hand over to the acting vice-chancellor possibly on Monday 30 November 2020 or latest by Tuesday 1st of December, 2020.” “The Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council are also directed to attend a meeting with the Honourable Minister of Education in his office on Wednesday, 2nd December 2020 at 11.00 a.m. to brief the Honourable Minister on developments following the Ministerial directives on the resolution of the impasse.” Vanguard News Nigeria The Senate of the University of Ibadan will hold a special meeting on Monday, 30th Nov. 2020, to select one of its members as Acting Vice-Chancellor. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that this came as a result of a letter from the National Universities Commission (NUC) directing the… November 28, 2020 In "News" Asks UI's Governing Council to suspend its meeting over appointment of VC By Joseph Erunke THE federal government has directed the Senate of the University of Ibadan to immediately convene a special meeting to select one of its members to act as acting Vice Chancellor of the institution. Government said… November 27, 2020 In "News" Governing Council members walk out of meeting By Adeola Badru The University of Ibadan, the oldest in the country, may end up without a substantive Vice-Chancellor being appointed when the tenure of the incumbent, Prof. Idowu Olayinka expires next Monday, findings by Vanguard have revealed. This is because attempts to… November 25, 2020 In "News"