PRESIDENT of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan has called for better and more engagement between Nigeria’s parliament and that of Jamaica. Speaking yesterday in Abuja when he received in his office the Jamaican High Commissioner to Nigeria, Esmond Reid who paid him a courtesy visit, said, “We want to see a better and an increased engagement between our parliament and that of Jamaica.” In a statement by his Special Adviser, Media, Ola Awoniyi, the President of the Senate who noted that both Jamaica and Nigeria would benefit with increased interaction between the two parliaments, leading to sharing of experiences and exchange of visits, said that Nigeria’s National Assembly and particularly the Senate would always be available to work with their Jamaican counterparts. Lawan said, “It is our pleasure to continue to work with you in a bilateral and multilateral situation because we believe that we have a common destiny with you. “Nigeria and Jamaica have enjoyed the best of bilateral relationship because of our history. “We believe, for a long time that Jamaicans are our friends, brothers, and sisters and therefore we continue to relate on that basis and the relationship can only be better. “We believe such a relationship should also lead to the growth and development of trade between the two countries.” The President of the Senate said that while Nigerians continue to visit Jamaica for tourism or trade, “we will also appreciate more Jamaicans coming to Nigeria to see where some of these movements started from. “Our belief is that many Jamaicans who might have had their origin here will be very glad to be in this part of the world to see the kind of environment that they started their journey from.” Earlier, Jamaican High Commissioner, Esmond Reid said that his visit was “to highlight that this year 2020 represents the golden jubilee of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Jamaica and the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” To mark the anniversary, according to the High Commissioner, there would be anniversary chattered flights from Lagos to Montego Bay in Jamaica. The chattered flights, he said, would be a historic occurrence because Jamaica and Nigeria had never had such direct flights in their more than 400 years historical past. “So I wanted to bring this development to your attention and to the attention of members of the Senate and enlist your support and encouragement to prospective participants in this development and because this will certainly be an important development in the strengthening of our relations for the next 50 years and beyond.” Vanguard News Nigeria President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has called for closer bilateral relationship between Nigeria, Egypt, and Morocco. A statement by Ola Awoniyi his spokesperson indicates that Lawan made the call at separate meetings with the Egyptian Ambassador to Nigeria, Assem Hanafi Elseify and Moroccan Ambassador to Nigeria, Moha Ou Ali… October 9, 2019 In "News" outgoing Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, yesterday, said the 8th National Assembly witnessed all-time persecution and political harassment in the history of the legislature in Nigeria and stressed the need for the 9th NASS to be independent. June 7, 2019 In "News" PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan has appealed to the United Nations, UN to assist Nigeria in the repatriation of looted funds back to Nigeria. March 11, 2020 In "News"