James Wolfensohn, an investment banker who helped straighten out the finances of major American cultural institutions and served as president of the World Bank, died Wednesday at the age of 86. World Bank Group President David Malpas paid tribute, saying that Wolfensohn “sharpened its focus on poverty reduction and redoubled its efforts to combat corruption, give voice to the poor, and magnify the impact of development investments.” “Jim transformed the World Bank Group, increasing decentralization, advancing the Bank technologically, and making the organization more open and transparent,” Malpas said. IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva hailed Wolfensohn’s “lifelong commitment… to fight poverty with passion and professionalism.” “He was a brilliant financier, a generous philanthropist and, above all, a great humanitarian who always put people first,” she said. Wolfensohn also served as chairman of the Boards of Carnegie Hall and the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The Institute for Advanced Study described him as “a global champion of human rights, economic justice, scholarship, and the arts.” Wolfensohn was born in Sydney, Australia and was a veteran of the Royal Australian Air Force and a member of the 1956 Australian Olympic fencing team. He worked as a lawyer at an Australian law firm and went on to earn an MBA from Harvard University in 1959. Wolfensohn, who became a naturalized US citizen in 1980, died at his home in Manhattan. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Lamido Sanusi, will on Tuesday, in South Africa, brief the international financial community on recent developments in the Nigerian financial sector. October 25, 2009 In "Business" My introduction to economic reform in my country really began in 2000 when, at the invitation of President Obasanjo, I took a leave of absence from my job at the World Bank to return to Nigeria for six months to serve as his Economic Adviser. My remit was very specific:… November 12, 2012 In "Finance" She has not gotten the job yet, but Africa and friends of the continent, including the Peoples Republic of China are excited that Nigeria’s Minister of Finance and Coordinating Minister for the Economy, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala is eminently qualified and will dust all contenders to become President of the World… April 1, 2012 In "Business"