A 17-year-old girl was murdered in Delhi to cover up a rape attempt made by her maternal uncle on her, the police said. The victim lived in the national capital with her uncle and aunt, who killed her and hid the body in a bed-box, they added. The incident took place in northeast Delhi’s Nandnagri area last month. The minor used to live with her uncle Vakeel Podar, 51, and his 45-year-old wife, and had been pursuing her studies in the national capital, police said. The girl had been missing since October 23. On Monday, her decomposed body was found stuffed in a bed-box inside the couple’s house, police said. The girl’s aunt – who is a beggar – had told the police in her statement that she didn’t find her niece at home when she returned after begging at 12:30 pm, October 23. She had claimed her husband told her that he left the girl at an orphanage in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad. Police later found that no girl of the said name had been brought to the facility on October 23. The police, during investigation, also noticed that Vakeel Podar had been missing, which raised the suspicion of their involvement in the girl’s disappearance, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northeast), Ved Prakash Surya, said. The police later arrested Podar from a bus stand in Bihar. He was brought to Delhi on transit remand and produced before the court, the officer added. “During interrogation, Podar said the victim was the daughter of his sister-in-law. He had tried to make physical relationship with her one month ago but she objected. When his wife came to know about the incident, she confronted him and they had a quarrel. Although Podar wanted the girl to stay with them, it was decided that she should be sent to the village, to which the victim refused since she wanted to pursue her studies and complete her education. On this, Podar and his wife had clashed several times,” Mr Surya said. Later his wife, in a fit of rage, asked Podar to kill the girl, he said. On October 23, Podar hit the girl with an iron rod while his wife stayed outside the house, police said. When she started bleeding, he wrapped her in a blanket till she died and then stuffed her body in the box of the bed. Both of them then washed the room and the iron rod, police added. They had planned to dispose of the body but didn’t get an opportunity, the officer said, adding Podar had left Delhi to mislead the police. NDTV Vanguard News Nigeria  When 12-year-old Peace(not real name)left her home town in Imo state to live with her aunt in Lagos, last December , her parents expectation was for her to get the best of education her guardian could afford. Enthusiastic Peace was said to have bid her parents farewell, with a promise… July 11, 2014 In "Crime Guard" Indian police have arrested the neighbour of a mentally disabled girl who allegedly raped her and left her for dead in New Delhi, officials said Thursday, the latest incident of sexual violence to spark public outrage. May 26, 2016 In "News" A Lagos-based couple, two weeks ago, got what they did not bargain for when an Ikeja Magistrate’s Court ordered the remand of their 7-year- old ward (name withheld) at the Child Correctional Center, Yaba, while the only suspect in police custody was granted bail. April 20, 2013 In "Crime Guard"