Russia’s elections chief said Monday that voting by mail in the US presidential election had paved the way for massive voter fraud, echoing rhetoric from the campaign of Donald Trump. Ella Pamfilova, the head of Russia’s elections commission, said she had carefully studied mail-in voting in the United States and found the process vulnerable to fraud. “For me, the conclusion is clear: this anachronism in its American form leaves massive scope for possible falsifications,” Pamfilova told the state-run TASS news agency. She cited the possibility of repeat voting, the unexplained loss of “unwanted” ballots, voting among people listed as deceased and a “lack of systemic control over the whole voting process”. Trump has refused to concede defeat to US President-elect Joe Biden. Trump in particular focused his criticism on mail-in ballots which surged this year and tilted heavily to Democrats. Russia was accused of interfering in the 2016 US election to help get Trump elected, in the hope he would take a softer line with Moscow. Biden is expected to take a tougher stand and during the campaign slammed Trump for having “embraced so many autocrats around the world, starting with (Russian President) Vladimir Putin”. Putin is one of the few leaders who has not yet congratulated Biden. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Russian President, Vladimir Putin awaiting official result to congratulate United States Presidential election winner according to a statement from Kremlin. However, Russia's elections chief said Monday that voting by mail in the US presidential election had paved the way for massive voter fraud, echoing rhetoric from the campaign of Donald… November 9, 2020 In "Foreign" The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has warned of alleged plans by Russia to erode the confidence of Americans in mail-in voting. The warning came in an internal notice issued by the DHS Office of Intelligence and Analysis on Thursday evening. According to the DHS, the Kremlin is trying… September 4, 2020 In "Foreign" Russians are set to approve constitutional reforms on Wednesday denounced by critics as a manoeuvre to allow President Vladimir Putin to stay in the Kremlin for life. The changes were passed weeks ago by Russia's parliament and copies of the new constitution are already on sale in bookshops, but Putin says… July 1, 2020 In "Foreign"