The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has said the setting up of the  Public Procurement Law reform was an indication that his government was not afraid of probe. He said the procurement law was purposely established for all transactions to be exhibited on Ekiti website, for thorough financial scrutiny . Fayemi said all the contacts being awarded by government are now being displayed on the state’s website, for the public to assess and scrutinise to embrace open contracting culture and allow the citizens to take ownership of government . Fayemi said this in Ado Ekiti, over the weekend at a three-day Public Procurement workshop tagged : “Promoting transparency and accountability in public  education expenditure through open contracting” , organised by Public Private Development Centre (PPDC), in partnership with MacArthur Foundation. Fayemi, represented by the Commissioner for Budget, Hon. Femi Ajayi, said Ekiti had keyed into  open contracting policy  and complying with  fiscal regulation via all- inclusive budgeting  that will drive socio- economic policy, for radical development. “We knew that  for government  to have a policy that will be workable and transform the economic landscape based on peculiarities, everybody must  be involved . “Before the 2018, 2019 , 2020 and 2021 budgets were  prepared, we held  town hall meetings across the three Senatorial districts where every section of the public was represented . This is where people made their demands based on peculiarities. This is where they tell us if it were roads, schools, hospitals, town halls and others that they needed. “Ekiti doesn’t joke with budget process. No government jokes with budgeting and transform the economy, that was why Governor  Fayemi  signed to OGP. “We are not afraid of probe and financial scrutiny, because we have nothing to hide”. Fayemi added that the Ekiti State BPP has been reformed with enactment of a  a new BPP Law, which stipulated that all projects and amounts they were awarded be put on website for public scrutiny . ” Our quarterly budget performances and others are now on our website. Every contract being awarded is put there. Everything is open. BPP is still undergoing reform, we are driving towards e-procurement . The process of approval would go to the tenders board if it goes beyond the threshold the governor can approve, just for accountability and openness”. The Commissioner for Education, Dr Adebimpe Aderiye, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mr. James Owolabi, said government of Fayemi has been open in all contracts being awarded in the education sector and working with the host communities for thorough monitoring . Also speaking, the Director General, Ekiti State Bureau of Public Procurement, Mr. Seun Odewale, said in line with the National Government action plan on budgeting, procurement and payment,  that the amount, specification and  delivery of all contracts being awarded by government  are now being  published. “Again, if such contract is terminated, the reasons for its termination must be stated , whether on account of poor implementation or lack of fund. The public is now allowed to get involved for  participation, monitoring and oversight to build trust between the leaders and the led”. The State Coordinator, Public and Private Development Centre(PPDC), Mr. Nelson Akerele, said the body has helped the government to design  a portal where government projects are advertised for transparency and accountability . “This will enable the people to verify  how the allocations to Ekiti were  being spent and  reduce  corruption in our procurement process”. Vanguard News Nigeria Ekiti State Government has challenged the governor-elect, Dr. Kayode Fayemi to begin his probe of the Ayodele Fayose led government now instead of waiting till October 16 that he will be sworn in, saying; “it is obvious that he will be consumed in his vendetta mission and rather than grandstanding,… July 19, 2018 In "News" Ekiti State government has denied dragging the state into N117 billion debt as alleged by the Governor-elect, Dr Kayode Fayemi. September 10, 2018 In "News" Governor of Ekiti State, Peter Ayodele Fayose yesterday inaugurated a Judicial Commission of Enquiry to investigate allegations of fraud against former governor of the state and current Minister for Steel and Minerals Resources Development, John Kayode Fayemi. The Commission is to submit itls findings in three months. May 22, 2017 In "News"