Osun State Government has warned primary and Secondary Schools not to sell or distribute uniforms to students in their domain as the reversal to old uniforms is set to take effect from the  2020/2021 academic session. The state government had earlier announced, as part of the review of some extent education policies in the State, that every school should revert to its old-established and recognised public uniform with effect from the new academic session, as against the current single uniform regime in the State. Speaking after the State Executive Council meeting, held on Monday, November 9, 2020, the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs Funke Egbemode, stated that uniforms are to be purchased in the open market from textile dealers in the state and should be also produced by tailors in the state. Egbemode said: “The Council decided that no school authority or principal is allowed to assume the duty of selling or distributing uniforms to students. It is not the monopoly or exclusive preserve of any school or individual to do so. “The Council has established this commerce-driven guideline to provide an avenue for businesses within the State to receive a boost during this period. “The Ministry of Education had earlier done a systematic stakeholders’ engagement with Parent’s Forum, Old Students’ Association and School Authorities, and these guidelines have been properly communicated. “The government expects schools to revert to their traditional uniforms at the resumption of the 2020/2021 academic session on Monday, November 16, 2020. To accommodate any form of logistical setbacks, the government also approved a two-week window for the full implementation of the reversal, which means that by Tuesday, December 1, 2020, the reversal should have been fully implemented. “The government enjoined all parents to embrace the State’s commerce-driven guideline by patronising traders and businesses within the State for the educational consumables of their children and wards. “The government also commended the gesture of Old Students’Associations that have taken it upon themselves to support their Alma Mater with uniforms, and also work with the government for the smooth return of the pride and honour of their schools”, Egbemode stated. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Osun Government says Sept. 21 has been tentatively fixed for the reopening of schools shut down due to coronavirus pandemic in the state. The Commissioner for Information and Civic, Mrs Funke Egbemode made this known in a statement in Osogbo on Tuesday. Egbemode said stakeholders were expected to continue… September 1, 2020 In "News" By Shina Abubakar Osogbo Osun state government on Monday adopted the report of the Expert committee on education reversing the extant education policies introduced by the State Governor, Rauf Aregbesola. Briefing journalists after the State Executive Council meeting at the Exco chamber at the Governor's office in Osogbo, the Commissioner… March 2, 2020 In "Education" ONE of the areas in which the regime of Governor Rauf Aregbesola of Osun State has frequently been in the news is the education sector. Apart from reintroducing free education in the state, Aregbesola has also embarked on revolutionary measures that have kicked up much dust, which does not promise… October 18, 2013 In "Editorial"