AHEAD of 2023 general election, President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan has asked Nigerians not to vote for them if they have failed the people. Lawan has also told Nigerians that the annual budget of the National Assembly is less than one per cent of the nation’s 2021 budget. According to him, those who are not comfortable with the Senators in the present 9th Senate should not hesitate to  vote them out in 2023 if they don’t like their faces. Speaking on Friday in Abuja at a retreat for top management staff of the National Assembly and National Assembly Service Commission in Abuja. Speaking further Lawan who  warned that there could be anarchy if the Senate is scrapped as being clamoured by some Nigerians, however described the Senate as a leveler which ensured that all parts of the country are equally represented unlike the House of Representatives where states with higher populations produce the highest number of lawmakers. The President of the Senate  also faulted the argument of those clamouring for the scrapping of the Senate because of the perceived jumbo pay being earned by the Senators. Details later… Vanguard News Nigeria As Senate threatens Zero allocation for erring MDAs Gives November deadline for budget defense As money bill Passes Second Reading By Henry Umoru - Abuja President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan said on Thursday that the early consideration and passage of the 2020 budget which returned the country’s budget… October 15, 2020 In "Politics" …As legislators begin work on 2021 budget, PIB By Henry Umoru THE low price of oil and Nigeria’s over-dependence on the product, currently hovering at $40 per barrel, has culminated in a $14 billion revenue gap. President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, who disclosed this yesterday, in his welcome… September 30, 2020 In "News" ABUJA-PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan yesterday gave reasons why the ninth Senate was in a hurry to deliver on some of the targets set in its legislative agenda, just as he said that  the Senate was conscious of the need to act very fast before the 2023 politics… December 8, 2019 In "News"