The Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) has launched a N5 billion intervention initiative tagged,  Lagos Economic Acceleration Programme, LSETF-LEAP,  to help  micro,  small and  medium  enterprises (MSMEs)  in the state recover, save and create more jobs in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking at the launch of the initiative in Lagos, Executive Secretary/CEO, LSETF, Mrs Teju Abisoye, said that the programme will provide access to affordable finance at a single-digit interest rate, enhance capacity building, access to market linkages and leverage business expansion opportunities for its beneficiaries. According to her, the Lagos State government, having identified MSMEs as the most affected group by the pandemic, mandated LSETF to provide the needed support to help businesses re-open and save jobs. To this end,  Abisoye said that the initiative  is “a sector-specific intervention programme targeted at sectors that have been severely affected by the pandemic and have a high impact on job creation”. Specifically, she said that the financial loan support will be allocated to education; tourism, hospitality, entertainment & culture; agriculture & agribusiness; existing beneficiaries loan renewals  and; liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)  distribution channels. “Without any inkling of doubt, MSMEs are central to the economic growth of any country. Hence, they will be instrumental to the economic recovery efforts following the COVID 19 epidemic, within the Lagos economy. “With Lagos State currently contributing over 30 per cent of the national GDP, we must take the lead in reversing a national economic emergency. We are optimistic that these recovery programmes will not only produce accelerated outcomes but also play significant roles in creating jobs, and thus, actualising our government’s quest towards rebuilding Lagos,” she added.  By Providence Emmanuel EdFin Microfinance Bank has partnered the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), to provide N5 billion intervention fund at a single-digit interest rate loan to over 2,000 private schools and individuals seeking education fund in Lagos. The Executive Secretary of LSETF, Mrs. Teju Abisoye, who announced the… October 7, 2020 In "News" By Kingsley Adegboye EdFin Microfinance Bank has partnered the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), to provide a single-digit interest rate loan to over 2,000 private schools and individuals looking to fund their education in Lagos State. The N5 billion intervention fund is part of the Lagos state government’s initiative… October 7, 2020 In "News" Intervention to help mitigate the effect of lockdown LSETF, First Bank float education loan programme  By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Government in partnership with First Bank of Nigeria has launched N5 billion Post-Coronavirus (COVID-19) Recovery Support capital for the education sector to support low-cost private schools across the state in… September 26, 2020 In "Education"