THE Ambrose Alli University chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) is currently divided over the activities of the visitation panel set by the state government as some members yesterday expressed confidence on the Panel, saying that a letter purportedly written by the leadership of the Union was not part of the decision taken in their last congress. A statement signed by its chairman, Dr Monday Igbafen, and Secretary, Dr Anthony Aizebioje-Coker a few days ago faulted the panel’s purported meeting with stakeholders in the school. But a counter statement signed by Ojealaro Peters and 41 other members of the union made available to Journalists in Benin yesterday faulted the claim by Igbafen on the activities of the panel. Part of it read: “No approval, ratification, authorization or imprimatur was given by Congress to Dr. Igbafen to do any such letter on behalf of ASUU, AAU Congress Members. Where then did Dr. Igbafen and his Secretary derive their authority to do the letter of 2/11/2020 to the Special Visitation Panel? “If anything, we aver that it is not within the province of the AAU Exco to set its own agenda/terms of reference for the visitation panel. “As a responsible Union with high ideals and ethos, ours is to submit memoranda and be prepared to substantiate and defend the same before the panel. “Going to press with wild, false, baseless and scurrilous allegations against the panel and the Ambrose Alli University administration, is a feeble attempt at a distraction and to besmirch the noble intention of Governor Godwin Obaseki in setting up the panel”, he said. Vanguard News Nigeria By Ozioruva Aliu THE Benin Zone Academic Staff Union of Universities, (ASUU) Thursday called on the federal and state governments to establish Visitation Panels for federal universities to avoid clashes and conflicts among management and staffs. The Zone made up of University of Benin(UNIBEN), Benin City, Ambrose Alli University (AAU),… September 3, 2020 In "News" BENIN CITY – THERE is disagreement between the management of Ambrose Ali University (AAU), Ekpoma in Edo State and the school’s chapter of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) over the decision of the management of the school to open the school for academic studies. January 22, 2019 In "News" ….Calls for inclusion of retired Registrar, Bursar ….Alleges unfair treatment against Babalakin By Johnbosco Agbakwuru THE Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities, SSANU, Monday faulted the composition of Special Visitation Panel on the University of Lagos Vice Chancellors crisis by the Visitor of the University, President Muhammadu Buhari. President Buhari,… August 24, 2020 In "Education"