NATIONAL leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Wednesday commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s decision to repeal the Lagos State law that ensures life pensions for former governors and deputy governors. Tinubu, a former governor of the state, stated this in a series of tweets. The former governor, in his tweet, said: “Congratulations to Governor Sanwo-Olu over the 2021 budget which he appropriately christened ‘Budget of Rekindled Hope’. This audacious and enterprising budget will empower our people and begin to rebuild Lagos State. “In particular, I would also like to commend the governor for the plan to commence the repeal of the pension law giving pension packages to former governors and their deputies. This is a bold and courageous move by Mr. Governor and I wholeheartedly support him. I encourage all APC loyalists to do the same.” Tinubu, shortly before leaving office, had signed the Public Office Holder (Payment of Pension) Law No 11 official Gazette of Lagos State, 2007, which states that former governors of Lagos State are entitled to a house in Lagos and Abuja in any location of their choice. Congratulations to Governor Sanwo-Olu over the Y2021 budget which he appropriately christened” Budget of Rekindled Hope”. This audacious and enterprising budget will empower our people and begin to rebuild Lagos State. @jidesanwoolu @followlasg @lshaofficial @ekometa — Bola Ahmed Tinubu (@AsiwajuTinubu) November 11, 2020  In particular, I would also like to commend the Governor for the plan to commence the repeal of the Pension Law giving pension packages to former governors and their deputies. — Bola Ahmed Tinubu (@AsiwajuTinubu) November 11, 2020  This is a bold and courageous move by Mr. Governor and I wholeheartedly support him. I encourage all APC loyalists to do the same. — Bola Ahmed Tinubu (@AsiwajuTinubu) November 11, 2020  Vanguard News Nigeria …SERAP, CACOL, CPRA, others hail move, call for refund …How states spent N37.367bn on 47 ex-govs, deputies By Clifford Ndujihe, Olasunkanmi Akoni, Henry Ojelu & Rosemary Onuoha FORMER  Governors and deputy governors of Lagos including Alhaji Lateef Jakande, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, SAN, and Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode will… November 11, 2020 In "News" Before picking the nomination form of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Monday, to run for Governor of Lagos, not so much noise has been heard about Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu. He seems not to be a man of so much noise, but his works and records make the noise for… September 12, 2018 In "Viewpoint" One of the highlights of Governor Babjide Sanwo-Olu's 2021 budget estimates was the disclosure that he will repeal the controversial law on pensions for former governors and deputies. November 10, 2020 In "News"