Governor  Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has revealed that the country is about reaching its maximum capacity to borrow, hence the need to improve on other channels of revenue generation in the country. He made these remarks during his keynotes address at the 22nd Annual Tax Conference, themed “Taxation and Competitiveness: Imperatives for National Development” on Thursday in Lagos. Governor El-Rufai, warning on Nigeria’s debt ratio, added that “the 2017 report from the Debt Management Office says that Nigeria recorded a tax remitting ratio of six percent, while total debt percentage of the GDP was placed at 18 percent as at 2019. “This indicates that Nigeria is almost reaching its maximum capacity to borrow.” He gave four key points as guiding principles for achieving development with taxation, even as he warned that the country was approaching the limit of its capacity to borrow. He said the first principles is “Forming and running an efficient developmental government with strong policies, institutions and executive capacity. “Second, performance-based budgeting will enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the utilisation of government revenues. “Third, privatising expenditure to intervene in sectors that accelerate national economic growth performance. “Finally, building autonomous institutions that reduces uncertainties in the taxation process, influences socially responsible choices and compel rational actions. “These principles drive  an effective tax system to  good governance.” He, however, stressed the need to be proactive by applying the recommended principles and not wait for the shock, as this will enable the government to “start developing our tax extraction capacity immediately.” VANGUARD WHEN I read in the FORBES recently that ''democracy is delivering impossible results,'' I didn't understand until I met the indefatigable governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El Rufai. Call privitisation czar or Mr. Demolition, El Rufai is ostensibly a sharp departure from the behavioural instincts of some state Governors in… July 4, 2016 In "Viewpoint" By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Governor Nasir El Rufai of Kaduna State has unveiled a draft budget of N237bn for the 2021 fiscal year that reflects the government’s commitment to promoting equal opportunity, accelerate human capital development, and attain fiscal viability. The governor noted that the budget proposals have taken into account… October 6, 2020 In "News" WITH less than 100,000 qualified medical doctors to a population of about 180 million, oil-rich Nigeria has one of the worst doctor to patients ratio in the world. This explains, in part, why Nigeria is among the seven countries with the lowest life expectancy in the world, averaging just 54… November 29, 2016 In "News"