Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta has brushed aside questions on whether he is concerned about the sack after the club endured its worst start to a season since 1981. Arsenal lost 2-1 at home to Wolverhampton Wanderers on Sunday, their third successive Premier League defeat. The Gunners are 14th in the table after five losses in their opening 10 Premier League games and they have been beaten in their past three home matches. Arsenal’s form has not been helped by their lack of bite in front of goal with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang a shadow of the player he was last season. Gabriel’s first-half goal against Wolves was their first in open play in the Premier League in six games. Defeat also came a year to the day that Arteta’s predecessor Unai Emery was sacked. However, 38-year-old Arteta — who previously served under Pep Guardiola at Manchester City — says he will not be distracted by questions over his own future. “It’s something that the day I decided to be a coach I know that one day I will be sacked or leave the football club,” he said. “I don’t know if it’s the day after I sign my contract, in a month’s time, a year’s time or six months’ time. I never worry about it. “My only concern is to get the best out of the players, give the best possible service to the club and become better and better. “I know, I repeat, in this profession, one day I will get the sack or leave but I don’t know when that is going to happen.” Arteta will hope they can end their poor run by gaining bragging rights in the north London derby against table-topping Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday. Vanguard News Nigeria Mikel Arteta admits Liverpool showed Arsenal exactly how far they still have to go before they can compete with the elite in his side's 3-1 defeat at Anfield on Monday. Arsenal took the lead with their first attempt on target - and with just their second touch of the ball… September 30, 2020 In "Sports" The new Arsenal manager, Mikel Arteta wants the team to match his high standards after his first game in charge ended in a 1-1 draw at Bournemouth on Thursday. After a bright start from the visitors, the ills of Arsenal's season that have seen Arteta handed his first senior managerial… December 26, 2019 In "Sports" Mikel Arteta is thrilled by the "incredible" maturity shown by Eddie Nketiah since his return to Arsenal, while he also reminded Bukayo Saka he has all he needs at Arsenal amid transfer speculation. Arsenal had suffered back-to-back defeats to Manchester City and Brighton and Hove Albion following the Premier League's resumption earlier this month, with the… June 27, 2020 In "Sports"