US President Donald Trump’s daughter-in-law Lara is considering a Senate run in her home state of North Carolina in 2022, US media reported Thursday. The reports, in the New York Times and Politico, come as Donald Trump continues seeking to reverse his November 3 presidential election loss to Joe Biden through baseless fraud claims and personal outreach to state election authorities. Lara Trump, married to the president’s second-eldest son Eric, “has been telling associates she is considering a run for Senate in 2022,” the New York Times said, citing three unnamed “allies.” North Carolina Republican senator Richard Burr has said he will not seek reelection that year. The Republican field to replace him is already set to be crowded, with Politico reporting that other potential candidates include Donald Trump’s current chief of staff Mark Meadows as well as former governor Pat McCrory and outgoing Lt. Governor Dan Forest. North Carolina is historically Republican, and voted for Donald Trump on November 3 — but by a smaller margin than in 2016. It is increasingly seen as a possible swing state. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria United States President, Donald Trump’s campaign team says it is unfazed by billionaire Michael Bloomberg’s spending in the race for the Democratic nomination. Bloomberg has spent more than 100 million dollars of his own money on advertising and voter registration efforts for a relatively late entry in the race for the… December 27, 2019 In "Foreign" US President-elect Joe Biden on Thursday accused Donald Trump of brazenly damaging democracy, as the incumbent's campaign to reverse his election loss through fraud claims was dealt another blow with a recount in Georgia. Trump was behind "incredibly damaging messages being sent to the rest of the world about how… November 20, 2020 In "Foreign" Nikki Haley abruptly resigned Tuesday as the US ambassador to the United Nations, in the latest departure from President Donald Trump's often shifting national security team. October 9, 2018 In "News"