BAJAJ Auto, the world’s largest manufacturer of three-wheels, has launched the most superior Keke ever seen in Nigeria, the RE250 along with the exclusive 3-wheeler distributor Stallion Group. The RE 25-was unveiled by Nigeria’s ex-international footballer, Jay Jay Okocha in the presence of over 100 Keke dealers at an event held at Federal Palace Hotel, Lagos. The launch of the SuperKeke, themed “Bigger Heart, Stronger Body” marked the brand’s association with the fabled football star and the company’s desire to provide a better, stronger and more reliable Keke for the Nigerian people. According to the management of Stallion Group, the Bajaj RE 250 distinctly stands out because of a host of class-leading features. The vehicle is powered by a 236cc DTSi engine, the biggest engine to ever come in a Keke. Company officials said the engine has been running successfully in more than 20 countries across the globe. The vehicle boasts of many first-in-class features like front fork, CV shaft, bigger 10” tyres, clear headlamps, remote controlled MP3 players, to name a few. Bajaj Auto has also upped the style quotient of the vehicle through a rear spoiler and a transparent passenger hood. The Bajaj brand ambassador, Jay Jay Okocha, who spoke about this new brand association, explained that “brand’s strong legacy and continuous efforts to offer best in class products to Nigerians has inspired me to associate myself with the brand.” Commenting on the occasion, Mr. Shaleen Nayak, Vice President, West Africa, Bajaj Auto said: “Nigeria is one of the most important 3W markets in the world and we have specially designed this vehicle for Nigeria. “For instance, we have always felt that a Keke rider in Nigeria requires a bigger, more powerful engine because of the tough road conditions. “The addition of front fork can greatly ease shoulder pain for the rider after a long hard day of work.” In his remark, Mr. Manish Rohtagi, Group CEO, Stallion said: “The RE250 Superkeke is a truly innovative and powerful product for the Nigerian roads. “The company through its superior product and sharp service offerings and welfare initiatives will establish and forge long-term partnership with the channel ecosystem and customers across Nigeria. “Through these fulfillment partners we envisage providing employment opportunity to five million Nigerians directly and indirectly over the next five years.” One of the dealers, Ms Helen Omojola, Muboj G. K Enterprises from Lagos, added: “This is exactly the vehicle which the market has been crying out for and I am thankful that Bajaj Auto has listened to demands of the Keke riders and given us such a great product. I am very excited to start selling the RE250 here.” The company aims to achieve a dominant position in the Nigerian market through the RE250 and has launched the vehicle at a competitive price of N800,000. The Bajaj RE250 Kekes are available from November 11, at all dealer outlets nationwide and will be showcased in 30 cities around the country from November 12, with a host of market connect activities on the Superkeke with special appearances of Jay Jay Okocha. Vanguard News Nigeria Bajaj Auto, the world’s leading manufacturer of three-wheelers partnered with Jay Jay Okocha to endorse its commercial vehicle range consisting of three-wheeler and three-wheeler products because of the outstanding qualities of the Nigerian ex-international footballer. October 15, 2020 In "Motoring" MANAGING Director of Stallion Auto Keke Limited, Mr. Manish Rohtagi has said that the alliance between Stallion Group, a leading conglomerate in the country and Bajaj Auto will go a long way in empowering Nigerians. August 7, 2020 In "News" Bajaj Auto Limited, manufacturers of two- and three- wheelers, has rewarded some Nigerian Mechanics for outstanding performances in its maiden “Speed to Lead Contest” on fastest person to disassemble and assemble the Bajaj RE4s Engine and responding to series of questions. April 20, 2015 In "Human Angle"