The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, Tuesday replied Garba Wahab, a retired Army General, who had accused him of not being in control of the force. In a statement signed by the police Spokesman, DCP Frank Mba, made available to newsmen, IGP faulted the submission of Wahab, noting that he is in control of the activities and modus operandi of the police force. He stated that Wahab spoke out of ignorance and from a jackboot mentality that lacks proper understanding of democratic policing culture. Read the full statement below: “The attention of the Nigeria Police Force has been drawn to comments and reactions during an interview session on Channels TV Sunrise Daily program of 13th November, 2020 where one Major General Garba Wahab (rtd) commented that “…rather than improving the improvement (sic) …the IGP is sitting down there with all the paraphernalia of office deprived of actually having control of police… he is not in control”. “The Force wishes to categorically state that the Rtd Major General is wrong in his assertion as IGP Adamu is firmly in control of the administration and operation of the Nigeria Police Force. It notes that the comments by Rtd Major General Garba Wahab shows that he spoke purely out of ignorance and from a jackboot mentality that lacks proper understanding of democratic policing culture, rooted in the Rule of Law. It reiterates that the retired Officer clearly spoke on a subject outside his areas of core competence. “It is noteworthy that since his assumption of office as the 20th indigenous Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni, a global policing icon, has in the past twenty-three months of his leadership of the Force, shown sterling qualities in what the operational/administrative command and control of the Force should be. “This is exemplified in the various reform policies being implemented to reposition the Force for greater efficiency, uphold the rule of law in policing actions and drive a citizen-centred policing approach. It is to the credit of his robust leadership style that even in the face of the recent violence occasioned by the ENDSARS protest and provocative attacks on Police personnel and assets, the officers under his command exercised maximum restraint and stayed calm, professional and committed to maintaining law and order in the country. “The Force therefore enjoins the general public and privileged opinion moulders not to allow sentiments becloud their sense of judgment but to use opportunities of national platforms to offer constructive criticisms and advocate opinions that will help in improving governance generally and policing in particular in the country. Major General Garba Wahab (rtd) will do well to fact-check his assumptions before going public”. Vanguard News Nigeria ...Gen Wahab insists - IGP not in control ...Says IGP Adamu in Firm Control of Police By Kingsley Omonobi Following the continued and seeming refusal of majority of Police personnel across the country to get back to duty and rise in criminality, occasioned by the EndSARS protests, a retired Army… November 17, 2020 In "News" At last,the controversies surrounding the retirement from service of the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris,has been laid to rest as the police chief had retired. January 15, 2019 In "News" The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar Adamu has hailed the leadership and members of the National Assembly on the passage of the Police Trust Fund Bill, on Tuesday, 9th March, 2019. April 10, 2019 In "News"