Key stakeholders in Abakaliki metropolis have said that the decision of Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi to reposition the government is in the right direction but said they are worried over the sacking of his political appointees. The stakeholders shared their views on Sunday in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) while reacting on the governor’s action. The governor had between November 20 and 21, dismissed his political appointees, boards, and commissions in the state, after his defection to ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Mr Alex Nnachi, a Stakeholder, described Gov. Umahi’s actions as contradictory, especially now that the people were already pleased with his defection. “You do not force people to accept your decisions, instead you can woo them to your side,” Nnachi said. Another stakeholder, Mr Samuel Ogodo, told NAN that the development will automatically give birth to antagonism. Ogodo explained “if the governor wanted his political ambition to move forward and promote inclusiveness, as well as enhance service delivery in the state, there should not be any substitute to development no matter the party affiliation. “Generally, he has given reasons for his defection but those he sacked have automatically become his enemies,” Ogodo said. Vanguard News Nigeria …Why we won't join Umahi in APC —Ebonyi NASS caucus …PDP 'll cease to exist in Ebonyi today —Umahi …Two camps emerge in Ebonyi PDP, NWC appoints  Udogu caretaker chair …We 'll challenge NWC's decision in court, dissolved PDP  exco chair …Expect all Ebonyi NASS members in APC, Chinedu Ogah… November 19, 2020 In "News" *** Say he is on his own, there is no crisis in PDP By Henry Umoru & Tordue Salem EBONYI State National Assembly Caucus of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP Wednesday disowned the state Governor, Dave Umahi, who has dumped the PDP for the All Progressives Congress, APC, saying he… November 18, 2020 In "Politics" The Association of Ebonyi State Indigenes in the Diaspora (AESID) has warned the national leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to be wary of its new catch, Governor Dave Umahi. The association also commended some state lawmakers and cabinet members who refused to join the governor on his… November 18, 2020 In "Politics"