Following the killing of 43 farmers in Borno State by Boko Haram, Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG),  has called on northerners to defend themselves against Boko Haram and bandits henceforth,  saying President Muhammadu Buhari and northern governors have lost control over the region. The farmers were killed on Saturday in Zabarmari, Gere Local Government Area of the state, while scores of fishermen were injured. Reacting to the incident in a statement by its spokesman,  Abdul-Azeez Suleiman,  CNG said government and federal troops can no longer be relied upon to protect northern communities. His words:”The President and federal troops keep telling us that they are doing something about the mounting insecurity, but by now all northerners must have realized that our region has been abandoned at the mercy of a rampaging insurgency  that is continuously wasting the greatest asset of North; its population and weakening it politically and pauperizing it economically. “Enough of taking excuses and fake promises of action from an administration that has so far acquired the reputation of being the worst in the history of our nation in terms of any capacity to generate confidence in achieving security of citizens lives and properties. “All northerners are by now alarmed at the rising insecurity of communities and their properties in the North with the escalation of attacks by bandits, rustlers and insurgents leaving the only conclusion that the people of the North are now completely at the mercy of armed gangs who roam towns and villages at will, wrecking havoc. “It is no longer in doubt that the current administration of  Muhammadu Buhari and state governors have lost control over the imperatives of protecting people of the North, a constitutional duty that they swore to uphold. “The situation is getting worse literally by the day as bandits and insurgents take advantage of the huge vacuum in the administration’s political will and capacity to act which they exploit with disastrous consequences on communities and individuals. “We categorically declare it unacceptable for the people of the North to continue living under this level of exposure to criminals who attack, kill, maim, rape, kidnap, burn villages and rustle cattle, while the President and security chiefs issue threats and promises that have no effect. “The situation under which all northern communities live today is no longer tolerable and we must all rise to protect ourselves and demand an immediate and comprehensive overhaul of the leadership of the nation’s military and the entire security and law and order assets. ” Vanguardngr.com The Personal Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on New Media, Bashir Ahmad, and leader of the Coalition of Northern Youths were yesterday locked in blame games over the security situation in the country, especially the north. June 25, 2020 In "News" As bandits attacked and killed not fewer than 15 persons in Dansadau community of Zamfara state this weekend, Murtala Abubakar of the Coalition Against Killings in Northern Nigeria, CAKIN, has said that Northerners wasted their votes in electing President Muhammadu Buhari. June 21, 2020 In "News" Barely 48 hours after President Muhammadu Buhari warned service chiefs to raise their game and check the spate of killings in the country, at least 23 persons were killed in Zamfara, Borno  and Jigawa states, while two others shot by armed robbers in Nsukka, Enugu State, weekend, are battling for… June 22, 2020 In "News"