 Nigeria is 60…and Diego Armando Maradona who just passed on a couple of days ago was 60. Maradona was born on October 30, 1960….same month and year Nigeria gained her independence from colonial rule. Nigeria got her independence on October 1st, 1960. Maradona featured against Nigeria at USA 94 World Cup. He led his country to a 2-1 victory in that encounter. Two goals from Claudio Caniggia and one from Nigeria’s Samson Siasia summed up the tie. The Government of Argentina has ordered a three-day national mourning for the departed Maradona…even as his lying in state for all to pay their last respect and tribute is that of a national leader. How else can a celebrity, a star and a national hero be celebrated or honoured? How else can a country motivate, inspire or boost the younger generation of sportsmen and women? If it were here, we would have asked why declare national mourning days for a common footballer? We would have asked is he a Governor, Senator or Minister? We would have asked his state of origin, his tribe or religion. We must remember that Maradona featured in the same World Cup, USA ’94 with Stephen Okechukwu Keshi, Rashidi Yekini, Uche Okafor and Thompson Oliha…our Late stars who were not given same befitting lying in state or heroic burial like the Argentine. Sad and most unfortunate. Our government and people must understand and appreciate that sports especially football is no longer a mere recreation activity….or public relations tool. It is a way of life. It is a “religion”. It is serious money-spinning business. It is a machinery for governance and government. We must treat our sportsmen and women like true professionals…true heroes and heroines….and like true nationalists or nation builders. Vanguard News Nigeria Argentina's football great Diego Maradona has died at the age of 60, the Argentinian Football Association said on Wednesday. The forward, who led Argentina to World Cup glory in 1986, underwent surgery for a bleed in the brain earlier this month. Doctors had said it was a success. Media reports… November 26, 2020 In "Sports" Diego Maradona has been admitted to hospital in Argentina although his condition was not thought to be serious, local media reported on Monday. The 60-year-old Maradona was reportedly taken to the Ipensa clinic in La Plata, about an hour from Buenos Aires. Maradona, who won the World Cup with Argentina… November 3, 2020 In "Sports" By Dr Segun Odegbami, Football is, probably, the most powerful and most followed human activity on earth. For many of its adherents to jointly conclude that one person is, probably, the greatest football player of all time cannot be considered flimsy or a mean feat, or taken lightly. It is… November 28, 2020 In "Sports"