A member of the House of Representatives, representing Pankshin/Kanam Federal Constituency of Plateau State, Rep. Yusuf Gagdi, has disclosed that the Police Reform Law, was his idea, long before #EndSARS protests began months ago. The lawmaker said this on Friday, while he received an award from members of the 8th Plateau State House of Assembly, as “Ambassador” of that session. The award was presented to him, by a former Speaker of the Plateau State 8th Assembly, Mr Joshua Madaki. Gagdi, a former Deputy Speaker of the State Assembly, while commending his former colleagues for the honour, recalled that his motivation for service to humanity inspired him to sponsor the police reforms bill, not the EndSARS protests. “We should not forget the foundation that took us to where we are. I thank you so much for this honour. “The kind of relationship we exhibited in the past, is what has made me what I’m today”, adding that  “I have always been for the interest and welfare of the people, and that is what motivated me to sponsor the Police Reforms Bill, which was signed into law, by President Muhammadu Buhari. “It is not the EndSARS that instigated me to bring a bill for police reforms; that bill came before EndSARS. I saw the need for political reforms before EndSARS “, he said The lawmaker also assured his former colleagues in the state assembly, to be rest assured of his consistently qualitative legislative activity in the House. Earlier, Mr Madaki who led a twelve-member team to present the ambassadorial award, recalled the quality representation of Gagdi, as a principal officer of the state assembly. He said he was impressed by the federal lawmaker’s consistently proactive representation, as he wished for him, higher responsibilities and steady growth in politics. Vanguard News Nigeria The Plateau State House of Assembly has impeached its Deputy Speaker, Hon. Yusuf Gagdi by voice votes. April 4, 2017 In "News" THE people of Garga in Kanam Local Government Area of Plateau State, have dismissed claims by the member representing Kantana constituency in the state House of Assembly, Mr. Yusuf Gagdi, that Garga district had become an abode for Boko Haram terrorists, and demanded for an apology from the lawmaker. February 15, 2017 In "News" The member of the House of Representatives, Rep. Yusuf Gagdi, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for signing the Nigeria Police Bill 2020, into law. September 18, 2020 In "News"