Malawian millionaire preacher Shepherd Bushiri, wanted by South Africa on fraud charges, was Thursday ordered freed by a court in his native country following his arrest on an international warrant. A court in the capital Lilongwe instructed the unconditional release of Bushiri and his wife Mary, a day after they turned themselves over to the police. Chief magistrate Viva Nyimba ruled their arrest illegal on the grounds that the warrant had not been chanelled through the relevant ministry, the couple’s attorney said. “The matter did not go through the minister of homeland security, as is supposed to be the case,” lawyer Wapona Kita told AFP outside court. The 37-year-old self-proclaimed prophet is known for “miracles” and an opulent lifestyle. Together with his wife, he is facing theft, fraud and money-laundering charges involving more than 100 million rand ($6.5 million / 5.5 million euros) in South Africa, where the couple had lived in recent years. The couple skipped bail last week and went to Malawi in breach of strict bail conditions imposed by South Africa. For failing to appear before a South African court on Thursday, a magistrate ordered the forfeiture of their 5.5-million-rand luxury home, located in a gated estate near Pretoria. The property’s title deed had been handed to the police as part of the bail condition. President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed concern at the “whole Bushiri saga” and vowed “we are going to take action”. South Africa issued the couple’s arrest warrant this week as it also sought to extradite them from Malawi. Bushiri is believed to have made his wealth through donations from followers of his church in Pretoria. The mogul has huge investments in the mining, telecommunications and luxury sectors. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Controversial millionaire preacher Shepherd Bushiri, out on bail in South Africa in a case of alleged fraud and money laundering, has fled to his native Malawi, a statement said Saturday. The self-proclaimed prophet is known for his "miracles" and wildly extravagant lifestyle and has made huge investments in the mining,… November 14, 2020 In "Foreign" Self-proclaimed Malawian prophet, Shepherd Bushiri, and his wife, Mary, on Wednesday handed themselves over to police in Lilongwe, five days after they skipped bail and fled South Africa. Malawian media outlets have confirmed their arrest, reporting that a Pretoria court on Tuesday issued an arrest warrant for the suspects who… November 19, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian community in South Africa says it has protested the misrepresentation made against their country by an official of a South African Organisation on air. January 6, 2019 In "News"