The Commander, 81 Military Intelligence Brigade, Victoria Island, Lagos, Brig. Gen. Ahmed Taiwo, on Saturday, took centre stage with his testimony at the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the shootings of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki Tollgate on October 20. Vanguard reported that he was finally cleared to give evidence after some initial hurdles. General Taiwo made startling revelations: *General Taiwo said troops were deployed from Badagry, Ikorodu, Epe, Apapa, Ikeja, Alimosho and even Lagos Island to restore order at the Lekki Tollgate venue of the #EndSARS protester. *Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State made the right call by inviting soldiers, but they were unhappy with the governor for denying that he invited the military when the situation reached Stage 4 of IS Security. *The Army was not after singer and DJ, Obianuju Catherine Udeh, professionally known as DJ Switch, who was one of the #EndSARS protest leaders at Lekki Tollgate on the day of the shootings. General Taiwo told the panel: “We have bigger fish to fry (how to stabilise Lagos).” *Lootings were well coordinated and the Army would have recovered most of the looted property if the state government had carried them along while lifting curfews. *Army rescued about N2 billion for banks during the mayhem. *At the tollgate, the real #EndSARS protesters were on one side, sitting, while hoodlums, who wanted to burn down Oriental Hotel, were on the other, and were dispersed by the soldiers using blank bullets. *General Taiwo said blank bullets don’t kill, but that a single real bullet at such close range would have killed three persons. *Joked about bringing a rifle to try out blank bullets on members of the panel. Vanguard News Nigeria By Henry Ojelu Brig. Gen. Ahmed Taiwo, Commander, 81 Military Intelligence Brigade, Victoria Island, Lagos, on Saturday said the Army was NOT after popular disc jockey, Obianuju Catherine Udeh, fondly referred to as DJ Switch. Gen Ahmed Taiwo made the assertion while testifying before the Lagos State Judicial Panel of… November 14, 2020 In "News" ...Absent youth panel members return By Henry Ojelu Members of the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the alleged shooting of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki tollgate by soldiers on the night of October 20 have momentarily stopped sitting to deliberate on whether military officers that appeared it before… November 14, 2020 In "News" By Henry Ojelu The Commander of 81 Military Intelligence Brigade, Victoria Island, Lagos, Brig. Gen. Ahmed Taiwo today told the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the alleged shooting of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki tollgate that most of the business looted in Lagos were owned by Igbo. Gen… November 14, 2020 In "News"