The Nigeria Police said on Friday that it has successfully rescued all Nine (9) Police Officers who earlier went missing on 8th November, 2020 between Kankara town and Sheme in Katsina State. They came under attack while travelling by heavily armed men, dressed in Military Camouflage, but suspected to be bandits. A statement signed by DCP Frank Mba, Force Public Relations Officer said, “The officers, all Assistant Superintendents of Police (ASPs), were on their way to Gusau in Zamfara State from Maiduguri at the time of the incident. “Two of the officers are currently receiving medical attention in a hospital, while the remaining seven are being debriefed. “Covert operation to locate and rescue the officers commenced immediately they were discovered missing en-route to their destination. “Thus, the apparent delay in commenting on the unfortunate incident was a deliberate decision aimed at protecting the integrity and confidentiality of the rescue operation and the concomitant safety of the officers. “It is also important to state that preliminary investigation has shown that the attack on the vehicle was an opportunistic crime as the officers were all traveling in mufti, unarmed and alongside other private citizens in the commercial vehicle. “The total number of officers involved in the incident is nine (9) and not twelve (12) as previously, wrongly reported in some sections of the media. Continuing DCP Mba said, “Follow-up investigation into the incident is still ongoing. Meanwhile, the Inspector General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu has reassured Nigerians that the Force is working assiduously to ensure an improved safety and tactical presence of police personnel on our highways as the yuletide approaches Vanguard News Nigeria The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) on Friday claimed the nine police officers abducted between Kankara town and Sheme in Katsina State on November 8, have been successfully rescued. This was contained in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, made available to Vanguard. Narrating the event… November 20, 2020 In "Metro" FIVE Policemen have been declared missing by the Police in Rivers state. May 28, 2016 In "News" One of the four police officers declared missing by the Benue State Police Command, after being ambushed by suspected herdsmen at Azege village, Ayilamo in Logo Local Government Area of the state, has been found dead. February 13, 2018 In "News"