PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has said that his administration has given all the needed support to the armed forces to take all necessary steps to protect the country’s population and its territory. President Buhari stated this while reacting to the gruesome murder of 43 farmers in Borno State by the Boko Haram insurgents. The President expressed grief over the killing of the farmers on rice fields at Zabarmari, in Jere Local Government of Borno State, describing the terrorist killings as insane. President Buhari in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja, said, “I condemn the killing of our hardworking farmers by terrorists in Borno State. “The entire country is hurt by these senseless killings. My thoughts are with their families in this time of grief. May their souls Rest In Peace.” He said the government had given all the needed support to the armed forces “to take all necessary steps to protect the country’s population and its territory.” Vanguardngr.com President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed grief over the killing of farmers on rice fields at Zabarmari in Jere Local Government of Borno, describing the terrorist killings as insane. The president made the condemnation in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja… November 29, 2020 In "News" Thousands of people across Nigeria lamented on Twitter, the Boko Haram killings of farmers on rice fields at Zabarmari in Jere Local Government of Borno in Borno State Some have accused President Muhammadu Buhari's administration of being responsible for the killings as no critical measure has been taken to get rid… November 29, 2020 In "News" THE National Association of Seadogs, NAS (Pyrates Confraternity), has joined Nigerians from different strata, demanding the sack of Service Chiefs over the killing of 43 rice farmers by Boko Haram insurgents at Zabarmari in Jere Local Government Area of Borno State. November 29, 2020 In "News"