The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti state on Thursday said it welcomed the judgment of the Federal High Court in Abuja in the suit filed by some aggrieved members of the party in the state. The Federal high court sitting in Abuja had on Thursday morning dismissed the case filed by former Sen. Babafemi Ojudu and others against the constitution of the executive of Ekiti State chapter of APC. Ojudu is currently the Special Adviser to the President on Political Affairs, (office of the Vice President). In a statement issued in Ado Ekiti APC noted that the judgment was a victory for all as it would deepen democracy in the state and country. It was signed by Mr Ade Ajayi on behalf of the Chairman of the party, Mr Paul Omotosho. It stated: “Ekiti APC is not gloating the outcome of the case and we shall be magnanimous in victory. “However, we are committed to moving the party to its eldorado. “For the umpteenth time, let’s state that we shall not depart from our resolve to turn APC into a formidable force and party to reckon with in Ekiti state. “While the decision of the Federal High Court vindicates our stand that our Exco has always been overboard in all our dealings in the past, we shall remain committed in our determination to continue to rule Ekiti state. “We remain a family and indivisible one, a sign for the opposition to continue to remain dormant and lick its wounds for ever in Ekiti politics.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Omeiza Ajayi The national leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC has described the purported suspension of Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and the Political Adviser to the President, Sen. Babafemi Ojudu by different factions of the party in the state as a nullity. The Caretaker/Extraordinary National… September 25, 2020 In "Politics" By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja The national leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC has described the purported suspension of Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and the Political Adviser to the President, Sen. Babafemi Ojudu by different factions of the party in the state as a nullity. The Caretaker/Extraordinary… September 26, 2020 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti has suspended Sen. Babafemi Ojudu and 10 others indefinitely for allegedly flouting directive of the party’s national executive. This is contained in a statement by Mr Ade Ajayi, the party’s State Publicity Secretary, made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti on Thursday. Those suspended… September 24, 2020 In "News"