To take Nigeria out of recession the Federal Government has been called upon to take pragmatic measures with regard to legal regulatory and institutional reform as well as look for alternative sources of revenue generation to boost the economy. Dr Olisa Agbakobo stated this at a Finance Correspondents Association of Nigeria, FICAN forum held in Lagos at the weekend, stressing the need for government to set up new regulatory agencies that would supervise banks’ lending and its ethics. He said: “There is need for massive legal regulatory and institutional reform in Financial Services Sector, FSS as money is oxygen to economy but not flowing as a result of bottlenecks. “Government needs to create a Prudential Regulatory Authority – to supervise banks to lend. Create a Financial Conduct Authority to get banks to behave. Consequently limit CBN to monetary policy.CBN should focus on lending, interest rate and exchange and take away banking supervision to new Prudential Regulatory Authority and banking ethics to new Financial Conduct Authority. If banks focus on lending and not trading, money will flood the system for productive value.” Commenting on alternative sources of revenue, he said: “We will also need to urgently explore alternative income sources from agriculture, maritime, aviation, infrastructure, mining etc. If government’s efficiency is enhanced and the states are required to contribute as economic enablers, then there will be less strain on the national purse and states will be forced to generate income.” Vanguard News Nigeria Bothered by the biting economic recession cycle in the country, former President, Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, Dr. Olisa Agbakoba, has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to stop lamenting but to chart a clear economic policy direction that will give value to the economy. September 15, 2016 In "For the record" Former President, Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, Dr. Olisa Agbakoba, on Tuesday, expressed concerns that Nigeria may continue to experience the current recession cycle till 2020, if the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government fail to immediately bounce the economy massively. September 7, 2016 In "News" Introduction: President Mohammadu Buhari’s 2019 Independence Day address to the nation may have created an enabling platform to encourage new discussions on how to transform Nigeria’s economy. The President’ssetting up of an Economic Advisory Council, EAC, is an important tool in this regard.  At the Platform, a biannual televised conference… October 4, 2019 In "News"