Princess Wonda, real name Princess Funmilola Fisher is a Nigerian Afrobeat singer who was born in Southeast London. Herself and her family moved to Nigeria when she was 3 years old and lived there for 8 years. Princess’ father is a Yoruba man from Abeokuta while her mother is of Benin and Calabar heritage. They ensured that she embraced all parts of her culture from the languages to food and history. During her stay in Nigeria, she learned how to speak Yoruba and broken English fluently, languages that influence her music quite strongly. Princess grew up listening to a mixture of pop legends such as Destiny’s Child, Whitney Houston and West African icons Lagbaja, Fela Kuti, Sunny Ade and more. Years later, she returned to Southeast London and went on to further her education at Middlesex University where she studied Advertising & Public Relations. Even though she had a strong family unit, the rough neighbourhood she lived in meant she had to maintain a tough exterior to get through the day. Her passion for music and arts kept her going by writing songs and poetry. According to Princess Wonda, her favourite African Artists now dominating her playlist are Davido, Burna Boy, Yemi Alade, Rema and Teni Apata. She is out with her debut single titled ‘City Boy’ and it’s enjoying massive airplay across Africa. Princess Wonda who recently released a new single titled ”Bust My Mind” her first collaboration after the success of two hit singles. While her new single is currently taking its rightful spot on music charts, she hinted about her forthcoming album, a project she’s putting most of her time to at the moment, according to Princess Wonda when asked by the host of Rhythm Spot on Adschieve Radio, the album will be housing twelve good songs which she described as ” Sounds Of Africa”. Princess Wonda is one of the fastest-growing Nigerian female singers in the U.K and having been able to define her sound, then she’s bound to become a figurehead in the music industry. When asked about her interest in working with more A-list singers from Nigeria she revealed she’s currently feeling Wurld, Niniola, Wizkid and Yemi Alade and she’s willing and waiting for an opportunity to work with any of them anytime. VANGUARD Nigerian Afro Pop and RnB singer, Princess Funmilola Fisher, popularly known as Princess Wonda, has been dominating many music charts and gaining massive recognition alongside constant airplay in popular African media houses with her latest single “Bank Stops”. “Bank Stops” was ranked #1 on iTunes on the World Music Chart… October 7, 2020 In "News" While there is a debate on the social media regarding who originated or pioneered the Afrobeat music genre, Africans laud its success on a global stage. March 9, 2020 In "News" "I think of it as the African Mona Lisa," said award-winning novelist Ben Okri, gazing at the long-lost portrait of a Nigerian princess which recently turned up in a London flat. February 9, 2018 In "Just Human"