Brig. Gen. Ahmed Taiwo, Commander, 81 Military Intelligence Brigade, Victoria Island, Lagos, on Saturday said the Army was NOT after popular disc jockey, Obianuju Catherine Udeh, fondly referred to as DJ Switch. Gen Ahmed Taiwo made the assertion while testifying before the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the alleged shooting of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki tollgate The general said, “Some people take delight in misrepresenting Nigeria and particularly the Nigerian Army to the international community and our fellow Nigerians. This, I believe is done for pecuniary gains. “Quite recently, a Nigerian, Catherine Udeh, also known as DJ Switch, claimed the Nigerian Army was looking for her. There is nothing further than the truth. “My Lord, we have bigger fish to fry; and that is how to stabilise Lagos. We can’t be bothered chasing one or two people. Where she got that from, I do not know.” Gen Ahmed also stated the army would have been able to recover most of the looted items especially at the Lekki axis, had the Lagos state government not lifted the curfew imposed on the state. Insisting that the lootings were a well-coordinated plan, Gen Ahmed noted that on two occasions when the state government lifted the curfew, army authorities were not carried along. “On two occasions when the curfew was lifted in Lagos, the army authority was not informed. If the curfew had remained in place, we would have been able to recover the looted items from Shoprite Lekki, Sango-Tedo and its environs,” he said. General Ahmed also disclosed that the army evacuated over N2 billion from some banks that were damaged in Lekki area. Testifying further, Gen Ahmed said the army was unhappy that the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, denied inviting the military on October 20, 2020, when soldiers shot at the Lekki tollgate where #EndSARS protesters were gathered. He told the panel, “I spoke with the governor and said the Army was unhappy that he said he did not ask for Army’s intervention but I am sure that after you watched everything (video footages), you saw he had more than enough grounds to ask for Army’s intervention; perhaps it was the way everything went.” Vanguard News Nigeria ...Absent youth panel members return By Henry Ojelu Members of the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the alleged shooting of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki tollgate by soldiers on the night of October 20 have momentarily stopped sitting to deliberate on whether military officers that appeared it before… November 14, 2020 In "News" By Henry Ojelu The Commander of 81 Military Intelligence Brigade, Victoria Island, Lagos, Brig. Gen. Ahmed Taiwo today told the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the alleged shooting of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki tollgate that most of the business looted in Lagos were owned by Igbo. Gen… November 14, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian Army has said that they have not received any formal petition over their alleged shooting of unarmed #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki Tollgate on October 20. The counsel for the Nigerian Army, Mr Akinlolu Kehinde (SAN), made the assertion on Saturday before the Lagos Judicial Panel of Inquiry… November 14, 2020 In "News"