The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila, on Friday expressed sadness over killing of  a vendor in Abuja, by one of the security men attached to him. The speaker in a statement he personally signed , also said the officer who fired the shot, has been suspended . “A horrible incident has taken place. This evening (Thursday) as I left the national assembly, I stopped as usual to exchange pleasantries with the newspaper vendors at the corner. Many of them have known me since I first moved to Abuja and it was a friendly exchange. “Unfortunately, after the convoy set out in continuation of movement, unidentified men obstructed the convoy which got the attention of security men in the convoy who shot into the air to disperse them. “Some hours later, after getting to our destination, it was brought to my attention that someone was hit by a stray bullet, contrary to an earlier report by men in the convoy that they applied their security discretion to shoot in the air. “I have caused a report to be made to the local police station and an investigation has commenced. “In the meantime; the officer who fired the fatal shot has been suspended from the convoy pending the conclusion of the investigation. “My value for human life and my respect for all people – irrespective of social economic status – is what endeared me to these vendors and these are the reasons why I stop my convoy quite often to connect with them.  For one of them to have been shot by my security detail is horrific and I cannot begin to imagine the grief and loss Ifeanyi’s family must feel on this sad day.  No family should have to go through this. “I am personally distraught about this incident and my deepest sympathies go to the victim, his family and Abuja vendors”, he said. Recall that one of the police men attached to the Speaker reportedly fired the shot on Thursday evening, ending in the death of the vendor. Vanguard News Nigeria Suspends trigger-happy security aide Orders immediate investigation By Levinus Nwabughiogu - Abuja Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila has said he was devastated by the death of Ifeanyi Elechi, a vendor who was killed on Thursday by a stray bullet fired from his convoy. The speaker who described… November 20, 2020 In "News" ABUJA — The agitation by the nation’s federal lawmakers for supremacy and juicy committee positions boiled over, yesterday, when two members of the House of Representatives exchanged blows minutes before the day’s plenary session. November 11, 2015 In "News" The story of the emergence of former Speaker Yakubu Dogara and his successor, Femi Gbajabiamila, will be incomplete without adequate mention of the exploits of Abdulmumuni Jibrin, an influential member of the House of Representatives from Kano State. June 23, 2019 In "News"