The Federal Government has commenced the disbursement of N20,000 cash transfer to 1,000 rural women in Gombe State. The event was inaugurated by the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Farouk, in Gombe on Thursday. According to Farouk, the grant is in addition to several social intervention programmes of President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to improve the living standards of vulnerable people in the country. She stated that the money was a one-off grant to support women, widows and vulnerable families to help them earn a living and support their households. “This is to give lifting hands to women, widows and vulnerable persons in Gombe State. “I charge them to judiciously use the grant to start up a business or enhance existing business to help come out of poverty,” she said. On her part, the Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Mrs. Pauline Tallen, while addressing beneficiaries advised them to use the money judiciously. Tallen who appreciated the president said supporting women would translate to supporting the family, adding that women play important role in the society. Also speaking, wife of Gombe State governor, Hajiya Asma’u Yahaya, stated that the money would help women in the state contribute to the welfare of their families. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs Janet Julius from Akko Local Government Area of the state confirmed to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), that she had received the N20,000 cash transfer. “I am very glad and I thank President Buhari and pray that God will bless him for remembering us. “I have a little business I am doing, so this will be used to support the business; I am grateful,” she added. NAN Vanguard News Nigeria The Federal Government has disbursed over N6 billion to poor households in six out of the 14 local government areas of Zamfara under its Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) scheme in 2020. This was disclosed by the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar-Farouk during the… October 27, 2020 In "News" The Federal government has supported 2,800 Women in Zamfara with N20,000 each being Federal Government’s Grant Project for Rural Women. The one-off program was launched on Tuesday in Gusau by the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster management and Social Development Sadiya Umar Farouq. The Minister said that Cash distribution in… October 28, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government through the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs Disaster Management and Social Development on Friday inaugurated the distribution of relief materials to flood victims in Sokoto State. Hajiya Sadiya Umar, Minister for Humanitarian Affairs Disaster Management and Social Development said the gesture was a directive from President Muhammadu Buhari… October 17, 2020 In "News"