Troops on Saturday night successfully foiled an attack by armed bandits on communities in Sabon Birni general area of Igabi local government of Kaduna State. The military informed the Kaduna State Government of this development when heads of security agencies led by the Commissioner, Internal Security, and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan visited Sabon Birni on Sunday, for a confidence-building meeting. At the meeting which had traditional, religious, and community leaders drawn from the Sabon Birni general area, Aruwan sought the cooperation of locals in the fight against banditry. “We are here on behalf of Governor Nasir El-Rufai to commend troops who successfully foiled coordinated attacks by bandits on Saturday night,” he said. According to him,” the troops showed bravery and courage in securing communities in the general area. We are here to thank them, and to ask for more from them. “From your end, we solicit support and cooperation for troops and all the personnel working here. We have to work together because security is participatory, involving government, security agencies, and citizens. Citizens are at the center of these efforts.” In his remarks, the Director, Department of State Services, Idris Ahmed Koya charged communities to double engagement with security agencies through information sharing. The Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations, DCP Ibrahim Abdullahi in his response reiterated the position of Kaduna State Police Command and the military in taking the fight to the bandits in their hideouts. As the delegation returned to Kaduna, DCP Abdullahi took journalists round the Rugar Bello Junction on the Rigasa Link Road where he debunked the insinuation that some train passengers were kidnapped on Thursday night. He said the Kaduna bound train from Abuja had not even arrived at the station as at the time an attempted attack by bandits was repulsed. Vanguard News Nigeria  …as security intensifies onslaught against bandits …Corpse of bandit decay in the bush By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Vice Chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University, ABU, Zaria, Professor Kabir Bala has told the Kaduna state government that 8 ABU students were among those kidnapped on Sunday afternoon on the Kaduna-Abuja Road. The Kaduna… November 17, 2020 In "News" Troops of Nigerian Army fighting to rid the North East of Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists as well as the North West and Central to rout armed bandits have neutralized 7 terrorists and 9 bandits after several confrontations. March 15, 2020 In "News" THE Defence Head quarters, yesterday, said combined forces of 818 Battalion in conjunction with troops of Operation Sharan Daji, killed five bandits in Sabon Birni and Dangulbi villages in Sokoto State. May 11, 2019 In "News"