Like Lagos state, Kwara state governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, Friday said that he would send a bill to the State House of Assembly to revoke the law awarding pension to former governors and their deputies. Abdulrazaq who disclosed this in a series of tweets, averred that the state needs the resources to improve human capital development. “In line with our campaign mantra and the yearnings of our people, next week I will be sending a bill to the State House of Assembly to revoke the law awarding pension packages to former governors and former deputy governors in Kwara State. “Our state needs all the resources it can get to improve our human capital development. I believe our limited resources are better spent on tackling the question of poverty and youth unemployment”, he said. Recall that the Lagos state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu had announced plans to repeal the Public Office Holder (Payment of Pension Law 2007), which provides for payment of pension and other entitlements to former governors, deputies and categories of public workers. Giving reasons, Sanwo-olu opined: “Mr. Speaker and members of the House, in light of keeping the costs of governance low and to signal selflessness in public service, we will be sending a draft executive bill to the House imminently for the repeal of the Public Office Holder (Payment of Pension Law 2007), which provides for payment of pension and other entitlements to former governors and their deputies. “It is our firm belief that with dwindling revenues and the appurtenant inflationary growth rates that we need to come up with innovative ways of keeping the costs of governance at a minimum while engendering a spirit of selflessness in public service.” In line with our campaign mantra and the yearnings of our people, next week I will be sending a bill to the State House of Assembly to revoke the law awarding pension packages to former governors and former deputy governors in Kwara State. — Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq (@RealAARahman) November 13, 2020  Our state needs all the resources it can get to improve our human capital development. I believe our limited resources are better spent on tackling the question of poverty and youth unemployment. — Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq (@RealAARahman) November 13, 2020  Details later: Vanguard News Nigeria …SERAP, CACOL, CPRA, others hail move, call for refund …How states spent N37.367bn on 47 ex-govs, deputies By Clifford Ndujihe, Olasunkanmi Akoni, Henry Ojelu & Rosemary Onuoha FORMER  Governors and deputy governors of Lagos including Alhaji Lateef Jakande, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, SAN, and Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode will… November 11, 2020 In "News" The Federal High Court sitting in Lagos in a landmark judgment has ordered the Federal Government to “recover pensions collected by former governors now serving as ministers and members of the National Assembly, and directed the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN to… December 4, 2019 In "News" By Chief  EDWIN  CLARK ON Friday, June 19, 2020, the nation’s number two citizen, Prof. YemiOsinbajo, responding to a statement made by former Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Governor, and the immediate past Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, during a Webinar organised by the Emmanuel Chapel on the theme:… July 3, 2020 In "News"