Top Nollywood celebrity, Tayo Sobola, popularly called Sotayo Gaga, has unveiled the biggest e-commerce platform in the country – Hicolumn, with matchless qualities that connects consumers to choice stores, anytime, anywhere, thus bringing their usual places of shopping close to their neighbourhood. The unveiling of the groundbreaking e-commerce platform took place at the Radisson Blu Hotel, GRA, Ikeja, on Thursday, November 26, 2020 in Lagos, the Centre of Excellence. It was held in grand style with a drone delivery of Hicolumn package to the top-notch celebrity indicating the swift and cutting-edge delivery service behind the e-commerce Tech. Highlights of the event includes free shopping vouchers to fans of the celebrity and the online shopping she made, which was delivered swiftly before 20 minutes, an attestation of Hicolumn’s uniqueness. The screen idol expressed delight that shopping has been made easier than before with Hicolumn’s entrant into Nigeria’s online market. Describing the groundbreaking e-commerce Tech, the award-winning superstar said the platform is a mobile app that comprises the Hicolumn Customer, Merchant and Delivery Apps that are all connected together and work as one Enterprise Resources Programme, to ensure customers’ usual places of shopping are made available for them, for real comfort and convenience. Sotayo, who is also an entrepreneur and a philanthropist enlightened merchants, store owners, consumers and the public on what the e-commerce Tech entails. She posits that it offers stores, merchants, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with existing and verifiable businesses, the opportunity to become active participants in the e-commerce ecosystem within 30 minutes after downloading the mobile app, which is absolutely free of any registration cost. It also gives them the opportunity of leveraging the internet to serve or sell to their existing and prospective customers, anytime, anywhere, without physically visiting the shops. She said it also ensure prompt execution of delivery activities within 20 minutes, with same quality, same price and faster than physically present at the stores. “Delivery of purchased goods online in 20 minutes is quite interesting, it is one of the best things that have happened to the online market in this country, quite exhilarating,” Sotayo remarked. She avowed that the platform is designed to take advantage of the weaknesses of the existing online market in Africa and the world at large, thus redefining its scope and operations with unparalleled services aimed at enhancing merchants and consumers’ satisfaction. The celebrity said merchants and store owners can become super strong and active online with the Hicolumn e-commerce Tech, especially in this period of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic when shopping is mostly done online for fear of being infected. “One of the interesting things on the Hicolumn mobile app is that merchants can register and setup their stores for free, without difficulties and start getting orders from consumers. This is without any delivery facility, but should ensure availability of goods in their stores for packaging and delivery after receiving payment,” the top-notch actress affirmed. She pointed out that the e-store is set to create over 100,000 jobs before the end of 2021, and will bring about large-scale youth empowerment as well as significant increase in the patronage of indigenous goods. The benefits for partnering with Hicolumn are: increased profitable sales; reduced cost of operation with less than five employees; proper inventory management; and elimination of threat posed by the current e-commerce system. Others include empowering merchants with the same capacity of an e-commerce global giant; customers’ retention on full scale; reduction of operational cost; business enhancement through effective online promotion; increased merchants’ focus on core operations; and opportunity for massive promotion and customer acceptability. Vanguard News Nigeria LAGOS—Two top Nigerian online malls, Konga and Yudala, yesterday, merged to become Africa’s largest e-commerce platform. April 16, 2018 In "News" StarTimes GO, an e-shopping channel on pay-TV platform StarTimes, has partnered top retail and tech brands to cushion the rising cost of living and help Nigerians meet their household and personal needs at more affordable prices. September 15, 2020 In "Business" Nigerians can now buy items in Konga online even when they are out of cash. This is following a new payment option, Konga Me recently unveiled by the e-commerce outfit. February 20, 2019 In "Technology"