The head of Peru’s Congress has called for the “immediate resignation” of interim president Manuel Merino after a violent crackdown on protests against his new government left at least three dead and more than 60 injured. Thousands have taken to the streets in days of protests against Merino following the ouster of his popular predecessor Martin Vizcarra, who was impeached on corruption allegations on Monday. “I ask Mr. Merino to evaluate his immediate resignation,” Congress head Luis Valdez said in a statement Saturday night to Channel N television. Lawmakers will meet in an emergency session on Sunday to discuss Merino’s resignation, a statement released later on the Congress Twitter account said. The ultimatum came after news of the death of three protesters during a massive and peaceful march in Lima, which was violently repressed by police firing shotgun pellets and tear gas. Lima mayor Jorge Munoz, from the same centre-right Popular Action party as Merino, also demanded the resignation of the president. “I just found out about the third death” in the protests, said the Archbishop of Lima, Carlos Castillo, deploring the police crackdown in a statement to state television. Police reported two deaths, while the National Human Rights Coordinator indicated it was investigating whether there were four. The Ombudsman’s Office said the first fatality, a 25-year-old man, was killed by pellet shots to the head and face. At least 63 protesters were injured, the health ministry said. The police tactics have been criticized by the UN and rights organizations such as Amnesty International since the protests began on Tuesday. Seven of the 18 ministers in Merino’s cabinet announced their resignation Saturday night after the police crackdown, according to local media. The political crisis appeared to be heading towards the resignation of Merino, whose whereabouts were unknown early Sunday. “I’m calling him and I can’t get through, I have no idea if he has resigned. I’m not a fortune teller,” Prime Minister Antero Flores Araoz, the government’s number two, told RPP radio. Lima’s international airport said it was closed due to the night curfew. Merino has remained silent since the crackdown on Saturday and the call for his resignation. At around 2:00 am (0700 GMT) Sunday, the government released a photo of Merino meeting with his cabinet, but doubts arose as to when it was taken because it showed the health minister who had resigned hours earlier. Thousands took to the streets on Saturday in opposition to Merino, the former Congress speaker who assumed office on Tuesday as Peru’s third president in four years. The mostly young protesters gathered in various cities to oppose what they call a parliamentary coup against ousted president Vizcarra. The largest march in Lima attracted thousands of people, with police again using tear gas fired from helicopters to disperse protesters who were threatening to march towards the Congress building. They carried signs reading “Merino, you are not my president” and “Merino impostor” while chanting. The municipal authorities in Lima turned off the public lighting in Plaza San Martin on the crowd gathered there. The plaza has been the center of protests in the capital. A group of protesters approached the area around Merino’s home, east of Lima, banging pots and drums. Archbishop of Trujillo Miguel Cabrejos urged the government to engage in dialogue and respect the right to protest. “It is essential to listen and attend to the cries and the clamor of the population to regain confidence, tranquillity and social peace,” he said in a statement. When he took office on Tuesday, Merino said he would respect the calendar for the next general elections, scheduled for April 11, 2021, and would leave power on July 28, 2021, the day when Vizcarra’s mandate was to end. Vizcarra had broad popular support since succeeding Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, the former Wall Street banker who was forced to resign under threat of impeachment over corruption allegations in 2018. Congress impeached and dismissed Vizcarra on Monday over allegations he took kickbacks from developers when he was governor of the Moquegua region in 2014, charges he denies. Vanguard News Nigeria Sudan's second new military leader in as many days accepted the resignation of the feared intelligence chief on Saturday as he faced calls at home and abroad for a swift handover to civilian rule. April 13, 2019 In "News" Tens of thousands of demonstrators packed Cairo's Tahrir Square on Friday after days of deadly clashes, demanding the military rulers step down and rejecting their choice of new prime minister. November 25, 2011 In "News" Chile confirmed Thursday that human remains and debris found by search ships are from a military plane reported missing with 38 people aboard, and the chances of finding survivors is "practically impossible." "The condition of the plane wreckage that was found makes it practically impossible that there are survivors from… December 12, 2019 In "Foreign"