Africa’s top-notch and renowned entertainment group, Sir Justine World Entertainment, SJW, has dropped a brand new and sizzling single titled “WET’ by Nigeria’s most celebrated artist and singer, Victor Adere whose stage name is Victor AD, and featuring Peruzzi. The legendary entertainment group, SJW released the hit audio single on the popular streaming platform, Youtube, on Friday, November 27, 2020. “WET” which is coming after several other successful beats by the artist, Victor Ad who has featured such world-class Africa celebrated singers like Davido, is set to dazzle the African entertainment space and set a new trend for music lovers. In a statement released by SJW Entertainment, the new song “speaks to the beauty of the African woman and the joy of offering appreciation for everyone’s inner and outer beauty”. Victor AD shot to fame with the hit track “Wetin We Gain” released in 2018, followed by several others, his record-breaking hits has placed the young artist on the world stage with worldwide tours and performances on the global stage. Sir Justine World entertainment assured that the group will continue to delight Africa music lovers with first in class beats and mind-blowing entertainment deals. Vanguard News Nigeria Obiajunwa Chinonso Justine, popularly known as Sir Justine is the Managing Director, CEO, Sir Justine World Entertainment. SJW Record is a fast-growing record label in Africa, we have been in the music industry for more than two years now, and haven signed some very talented artistes like Victor Ad and… July 11, 2020 In "Business" Peruzzi By Emmanuel Okogba A record label is seeking to stop Tobechukwu Victor Okoh better known as Peruzzi from performing, recording new songs or even featuring in songs of other artists over a record deal that went sour. Peruzzi who is seen mostly with Davido's DMW crew members, according to… November 19, 2019 In "Entertainment" The Chief Executive Officer, CEO of Sir Justine Worldwide, SJW Entertainment, Obiajunwa Justine Chinonso has called on influential and well-meaning Nigerians to support the effort of the Federal and State Governments in battling the pandemic of the COVID 19 virus. April 7, 2020 In "News"