Controversial millionaire preacher Shepherd Bushiri, out on bail in South Africa in a case of alleged fraud and money laundering, has fled to his native Malawi, a statement said Saturday. The self-proclaimed prophet is known for his “miracles” and wildly extravagant lifestyle and has made huge investments in the mining, telecommunications and luxury sectors. He was arrested for alleged fraud and money laundering in October in a multi-million-dollar case but got bail on November. His wealth comes from donations from followers of his Enlightened Christian Gathering church in the South African capital Pretoria. Bushiri and his wife Grace were granted bail on condition that they would confine themselves to South Africa’s Gauteng province. Bushiri said he had fled South Africa as he feared for his life. “There have been clear and evident attempts to have myself, my wife and my family killed and… there has never been state protection,” he said in a statement. “Our coming to Malawi, hence, is a tactical withdrawal from the Republic of South Africa solely meant to preserve our lives,” he said. “We have to be alive to testify.” There had been allegations that Bushiri fled South Africa with Malawi’s President Lazarus Chakwera, who was on a two-day official visit to South Africa and returned on Saturday. But Chakwera’s spokesman Brian Banda said the priest was not on the presidential jet. “The allegation that Prophet Shepherd Bushiri came on the same flight with the president is false,” he said. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria The Nigerian community in South Africa says it has protested the misrepresentation made against their country by an official of a South African Organisation on air. January 6, 2019 In "News" The estranged wife of Zimbabwe’s vice-president has been charged with attempting to murder him. Marry Chiwenga – already facing corruption charges – has been denied bail in Harare. It's alleged that she tried to kill General Constantino Chiwenga while he was receiving medical treatment in South Africa. READ ALSO: Zimbabwe: First Lady… December 16, 2019 In "Foreign" Zimbabwe's anti-graft commission has arrested the wife of one of President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s deputies on fraud and money-laundering charges involving US1 million, a document seen Sunday by AFP revealed. Anti-corruption officers detained 38-year-old Marry Mubaiwa, the wife of vice-president Constantine Guvheya Nyikadzino Chiwenga, on Saturday, according to a police report.… December 15, 2019 In "Foreign"