A cousin to former pension boss, Mr. Abdulrasheed Maina, Mallam Aliyu Maina, has called on the erstwhile chairman of the pension reform task team to submit himself for continuation of trial so that the current national embarrassment faced by Senator Ali Ndume is smothered before it gets out of hand. Senator Ali Ndume has been remanded in Kuje prison for failing to bring Mr. Maina who was supposed to appear in court on Monday In an interview, Mallam Aliyu Maina, a first cousin to Maina, said Senator Ndume had staked so much on behalf of Mr. Maina, and it’s sad to see that he is now paying the price for helping a fellow constituent. He therefore called on Mr. Maina to save the situation, avert further damages to his case, and make himself available so that the matter can be taken to it’s logical conclusion. ” I have talked to Senator Ndume and some of his aides a number of occasions and I assured them that Maina would be available in court as soon as he recovers, but sadly, he never did. I have not set my eyes on him for over three months now as he has virtually avoided everybody.” Aliyu therefore appealed to Maina to come out and face his trial. Vanguard News Nigeria By Ikechukwu Nnochiri The Abuja Division of the Federal High Court, yesterday, remanded the senator representing Borno South, Ali Ndume, in Kuje prison, following his failure to produce the former chairman of the defunct Pension Reform Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, whom he stood surety for. The court, in a ruling… November 24, 2020 In "News" …Orji Kalu, Nyame, Dariye pressured me to stand surety for him, Ndume laments By Ikechukwu Nnochiri THE Federal High  Court in Abuja yesterday gave Senator Ali Ndume, who is representing Borno South, 21 days, to produce former chairman of the defunct Pension Reform Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, who has repeatedly… October 20, 2020 In "News" By Ikechukwu Nnochiri, Abuja The Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered that the Senator representing Borno South, Ali Ndume, should be remanded at the Kuje Correctional Center, following his inability to produce the former Chairman of the defunct Pension Reform Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, whom he stood surety for. Maina is answering to… November 23, 2020 In "News"