PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 24th virtual Federal Executive Council, FEC meeting at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Physically present at the meeting are Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha, and the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari. Also present at the Council Chamber are 11 Ministers, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Dr. Zainab Ahmed, the Attorney-General of the Federation, AGF and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola and the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire. Others are the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, the Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Dingyadi, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, and the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola. The Head of Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan and other ministers are participating in the council meeting from their various offices in Abuja. Vanguard News Nigeria By Johnbosco Agbakwuru PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 19th virtual Federal Executive Council, FEC, meeting at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Physically present at the meeting, which started at about 10:00am are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha,… October 14, 2020 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 16th virtual Federal Executive Council, FEC, meeting at the Council Chambers, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Physically present at the virtual meeting are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha, Chief of… September 23, 2020 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 5th virtual Federal Executive Council, FEC meeting, at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. The meeting started at 10am as the President entered the chamber with the rendition of the National Anthem. Physically present as at the… June 24, 2020 In "Politics"