Senator Kabiru Marafa who represented Zamfara Central in the Senate has accused the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) of lying over the lingering crisis rocking the Zamfara state chapter of the party. Marafa who noted that the Yobe State governor did not get it right and was not not saying the truth by saying that the Zamfara APC crisis has been resolved, said that it was not yet Uhuru with regard to the party and its political quargmire.
He has however  warned the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led caretaker committee of the APC not to destroy the party. The Committee had at the end of its meeting on Tuesday, claimed that the crises in the Bauchi, Bayelsa, Cross River, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Zamfara, Ondo and Oyo State chapters of the party, have been resolved. But when contacted, Marafa, a governorship aspirant of the party in the 2019 election, said that the committee has not done anything since its inception to resolve the crisis in its Zamfara State chapter. Marafa who said the two factions of the party in Zamfara State are still existing and operating parallel secretariats in Gusau, the state capital and across the 14 local government areas of the state, said; “this ungodly claim by the committee would only worsen the crisis of the party in the state”. Marafa who is the factional leader of the APC in Zamfara State who reiterated the commitment of his camp to fight for its rights and the rights of average Zamfara APC members, said, “With this statement, the committee has deflated the trust and confidence reposed in it, by misleading the public with the claim that it has resolved the crises in the states mentioned. The committee has lost its integrity and its members should therefore resign or be sacked. “This is nothing but a wicked lie. I pray that the committee is not on a mission to destroy the party completely. “They have not done anything and have not contacted anybody; either by phone or letter, formally or informally.  They are behaving as if Zamfara State does not exist and therefore doesn’t matter.” Vanguard *** Says he assisted Yari to become governor in 2011 *** Speaks on why Buni cannot reconcile aggrieved members *** Says Yari is misleading Buni’s c’ttee By Henry Umoru THE political quagmire between the former Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari and Senator Kabiru Marafa has taken a new twist… September 11, 2020 In "Politics" By Omeiza Ajayi Former Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari has expressed his readiness to reconcile with aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress APC in the state led by Sen. Kabir Marafa but conceded that such efforts could be problematic as many of those against him are currently serving… September 8, 2020 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi A support group of the All Progressives Congress APC in Zamfara state loyal to former Gov. Abdulaziz Yari, the APC Peace and Unity Forum, has written a letter to the Gov. Mai Mala Buni leadership of the party, seeking urgent intervention in the crisis ravaging the state… August 29, 2020 In "Politics"