A number of Nigerians listed in the criminal complaint filed by activist, Kenechukwu Okeke  for their involvement in the #EndSARS protests have reacted via their social media pages. Okeke in a suit filed at the Magistrate Court, Abuja, yesterday, listed 38 Nigerians including the senior pastor of Daystar Church Sam Adeyemi, music producer Don Jazzy, Tuface Idibia,  Davido, Falz, Tiwa Savage, Kanu Nwankwo, Burna Boy, Aisha Yesufu, Peter and Paul Okoye, Kiki Mordi, Banky W, Flavour, Phyno and others as defendants. Kenechukwu said the defendants through their Twitter accounts “did conspire to commit misdemeanor, to wit, promoting or acting in such a manner to assist in the promotion of unlawful assembly under the guise or composition of #EndSARS.” Here are some of the reactions; Aisha Yesufu@AishaYesufu tweeted “My joy is that they got my name right and I am number one on the list. Thank you #EndSars protesters. I am honoured to be part of you all” Oseyi Etomi @ozzyetomi tweeted “First of all, aint no way I’m #2 and @fkabudu is #38, will the lies on this app ever end????” Fakhrriyyah Hashim @FakhuusHashim “Goodluck and felicitations to whoever lodged this… I’ve been listed in more cease and desists, and law suits this year than in my entire life. At least one quarterly. A Joke.” Uche Jombo Rodriguez @uchejombo “There are just somethings you can’t give your energy to” Modupe Odele @Mochievous “Maybe consider joining the incredible lawyers who are volunteering pro bono to help get peaceful protesters illegally detained out. Might be a better use of your time. Just saying xx” Ayodeji Richard Makun @AYCOMEDIAN  “Na only God know y ur papa condoms leak on that faithful day. At least let still celebrate d fact that when neighbours called to ask ur dad “wetin madam born?” Him too Shout “NA BOY O! him name na KENECHUKWU”. Son of OKEKE we dey see ur public display of uncircumcised foolishness” Ayo Sogunro @ayosogunro “If you’re going to name me in a court process, do it properly. My full name is Ayodele Olorunfunmi Sogunro.” Pamilerin Adegoke @UnclePamilerin “We made the list again  Glory be to God. We meet in court ” Japheth Omojuwa @Omojuwa “Great lawyers have been sending me messages in case I need a lawyer. I told them to wait for when a lawyer with wits comes along, then we battle. You don’t battle fake lawyers that are impossible to even underestimate. Jobbers with delusions of adequacy. Nah.” Feyikemi Abudu @fkabudu “Lmao. You don’t have work? I wish you all the best with this… At the very least, we can be glad that all these ‘my Lord can I may’ lawyers will still find work in these trying times. Small mercies. Must be the crack… Lawyers on the TL, your learned colleague is serving on social media. After you all stood in hot sun with wig? O wrong nau.” My joy is that they got my name right and I am number one on the list.
Thank you #EndSars protesters. I am honoured to be part of you all https://t.co/lK9rxARCYz — Aisha Yesufu (@AishaYesufu) November 10, 2020  Lmao. You don’t have work? I wish you all the best with this https://t.co/2Qaj9WMKxB — FK. (@fkabudu) November 10, 2020  Great lawyers have seen sending me messages in case I need a lawyer. I told them to wait for when a lawyer with wits comes along, then we battle. You don’t battle fake lawyers that are impossible to even underestimate. Jobbers with delusions of adequacy. Nah. — JJ. Omojuwa (@Omojuwa) November 10, 2020  We made the list again  Glory be to God. We meet in court  pic.twitter.com/lDREaf3RYY — Dr PamPam | Omo Iya Ologi (@UnclePamilerin) November 10, 2020  Just in case it’s not @ayosogunro My full name is Ayomikun Oluwaferanmi Sogunro. Kindly clarify. I want to hold on to my pride of place on that list. https://t.co/vqJ9iFZahl — Ayo Sogunro III (@ayosogunro3) November 10, 2020  Na only God know y ur papa condoms leak on that faithful day. At least let still celebrate d fact that when neighbours called to ask ur dad “wetin madam born?” Him too Shout “NA BOY O! him name na KENECHUKWU”.
Son of OKEKE we dey see ur public display of uncircumcised foolishness — AY COMEDIAN (@AYCOMEDIAN) November 10, 2020  Maybe consider joining the incredible lawyers who are volunteering pro bono to help get peaceful protesters illegally detained out. Might be a better use of your time. Just saying xx https://t.co/FJFwxT0pgv — Moe (@Mochievous) November 10, 2020  There are just somethings you can’t give your energy to — Uche Jombo Rodriguez (@uchejombo) November 10, 2020  Goodluck and felicitations to whoever lodged this. https://t.co/YNPqBBi1BS — Fakhrriyyah (@FakhuusHashim) November 10, 2020  First of all, aint no way I’m #2 and @fkabudu is #38, will the lies on this app ever end???? https://t.co/hRaZgiZmEj — Ozzy Etomi (@ozzyetomi) November 10, 2020  Vanguard News Nigeria By Ayo Onikoyi The management of Nigerian Hip-hop singer, Innocent Idibia popularly known as 2Baba has responded to an alleged criminal complaint filed against him and 49 others in an Abuja Magistrate Court for their complicity in the EndSARS protests which recently swept across the nation. According to Efe Omorogbe,… November 10, 2020 In "Entertainment" By Ikechukwu Nnochiri, Abuja A human rights activist, Kenechukwu Okeke, has lodged a criminal complaint against 50 persons over alleged roles they played in the #EndSARS protests that rocked the nation last month. In the suit he filed before an Abuja Chief Magistrate Court on Monday, the complainant who identified… November 10, 2020 In "News" …How Police deceived me to arrest my brother, Eromosele Adene, in Lagos – Sister …Says brother has liver problems, begs for his release …My client moved to Abuja, denied bail, police playing hide-and-seek, says Lawyer …Police deny arresting protesters •We will meet in court- Dr Pam Pam …Stop harassing innocent… November 11, 2020 In "News"