Tanzania’s president John Magufuli was Friday declared winner of a second term amid allegations of widespread election fraud, while the ruling party won an absolute majority in parliament. The national electoral commission late Friday said Magufuli received 12.5 million votes, or 84%, while top opposition candidate Tundu Lissu received 1.9 million, or 13%. Turnout was roughly 50%, with 14.8 million people voting after 29 million registered. The ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi party won parliament seats in 253 of the 261 constituencies announced so far, achieving upsets in opposition strongholds by wide margins. Some in the ruling party had called for the presidency’s two-term limit to be extended if enough parliament seats could be secured. Lissu has rejected the vote while alleging “widespread irregularities” and called for peaceful demonstrations. The opposition asserts that thousands of observers were turned away from polling stations on Wednesday, and that at least a dozen people were killed on the eve of the vote in the semi-autonomous region of Zanzibar. Internet and text-messaging services slowed dramatically or disappeared. But electoral commission chair, Semistocles Kaijage, asserted in late Friday’s announcement that all the votes were legitimate. Large crowds of ruling party supporters who had gathered to watch the election results were celebrating in the streets. There was no immediate comment by the president. The two main opposition parties, Lissu’s CHADEMA and ACT Wazalendo, planned to to hold a joint press conference on Saturday, a spokesman said. The United States has said that “irregularities and the overwhelming margins of victory raise serious doubts about the credibility of the results announced.” Few international election observers were present, unlike in past years. The vote “marked the most significant backsliding in Tanzania’s democratic credentials,” Tanzania Elections Watch, a group of regional experts, said in an assessment released Friday. It noted a heavy deployment of military and police whose conduct created a “climate of fear.” “The electoral process, so far, falls way below the acceptable international standards” for holding free and fair elections, the group said. The opposition alleges widespread irregularities including double-voting and ballot box-seizing by security forces or other authorities. The East African nation is one of Africa’s most populous countries and fastest-growing economies. Magufuli has pointed to the country’s achievement of lower-middle-income status as one reason he deserves another term. But observers say Tanzania’s reputation for democratic ideals is crumbling, with Magufuli accused of severely stifling dissenting voices in his first five-year term. Opposition political gatherings were banned in 2016, the year after he took office. Media outlets have been targeted. Some candidates were arrested, blocked from campaigning or disqualified ahead of the vote. Vanguard Tanzanian President John Magufuli came to power as a no-nonsense man of the people nicknamed The Bulldozer, but along with popular efforts to clean up graft, he has been accused of crushing dissent and stifling democracy. The 61-year-old on Friday won a second term in office with a resounding 84… November 1, 2020 In "Foreign" Tanzania opposition politician Tundu Lissu jetted back to the country Monday with hundreds of supporters showing up at the airport to welcome him home. Tundu returns home from Belgium where he spent three years seeking medical attention following an aggressive attack that saw him shot six times. He was stripped… July 29, 2020 In "News" Tanzania's President, John Magufuli, said Wednesday he would seek re-election in October, after a first term marked by accusations of narrowing freedoms and growing authoritarianism. Magufuli, who was elected in 2015, picked up nomination forms to start his bid to be chosen as his party's candidate, as he comes under… June 17, 2020 In "Foreign"