There are few players who have commanded such a God-like status as Maradona, a footballer who has transcended eras and remains amongst the most celebrated icons the sport has seen. The Argentine was the inspiration behind his nation’s World Cup triumph in 1986 and produced arguably the finest individual performances the tournament has seen, with the South American nation announcing three days of mourning to mark his passing. His legend lives on further in Europe and in Naples, where he helped transform Napoli from perennial strugglers to title winners, winning the sole two league titles in the club’s history in the late eighties and early nineties. Simply watching him with the ball at his feet was more than enough to acknowledge his greatness. Maradona became the youngest player in the history of Argentine football at Argentinos Juniors before rising spectacularly to superstardom, captivating audiences in Buenos Aires, Barcelona and Naples. He was mesmerising when in possession, his strength defying his diminutive stature as he rode robust challenges, sparkling with that familiar low-centred gait, explosive acceleration and sublime skill. His status at Boca Juniors and Napoli borders on a cult, where at the latter he inspired a team that had notoriously struggled into title winners, twice winning the scudetto – two triumphs which remain the only league title successes in Napoli’s history. Then, of course, is that 1986 World Cup as he led Argentina to glory, his two goals against England in the quarter-finals encapsulating the best and worst of a man often labelled as a troubled genius. Vanguard News Nigeria Arguably the greatest footballer of all time, the death of Diego Armando Maradona is being met with an outpouring of reactions. Fans, sporting icons have taken to social media to mourn the loss of the iconic captain of Argentina's world cup winning squad in 1986. Brazilian great Pele tweeted: "What… November 26, 2020 In "Sports" By Dr Segun Odegbami, Football is, probably, the most powerful and most followed human activity on earth. For many of its adherents to jointly conclude that one person is, probably, the greatest football player of all time cannot be considered flimsy or a mean feat, or taken lightly. It is… November 28, 2020 In "Sports" Grieving fans of Diego Maradona have clashed with police as they scrambled to get a glimpse of the Argentine football legend’s casket in Buenos Aires. Grief and passion boiled over as heartbroken supporters broke through barriers and brawled with riot police near the presidential palace. Pictures also show hordes of… November 28, 2020 In "Sports"