ABUJA — PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari and the President of African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, are currently meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Adesina has been at the centre of allegations of impropriety at the Abidjan-based financial institution which have been a subject of inquiry by the Bank’s Ethics Committee. Nigerian leaders including former President Olusegun Obasanjo and former President Goodluck Jonathan and some African leaders have risen to the defense of Dr. Adesina in the allegations against him. The embattled Bank President had responded, point-by-point, to the 16 allegations made anonymously against him to the Ethics Committee. The Committee cleared the AfDB President but the United States Department of Treasury dismissed the verdict, calling for an independent investigation of the allegations against Adesina. AfDB, a regional multilateral institution, is owned by African countries but the US is a major investor. Nigerian and other African leaders have been rallying support for Adesina who is completing his five-year-tenure but is entitled to another term. Vanguard News Nigeria A new perspective into the travails of the President of African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, was offered, yesterday, by a former Director General of the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Professor Bola Akinterinwa, who described Adesina as a victim of colonial repression. May 31, 2020 In "News" The African Development Bank (AfDB) is currently gearing up for another leadership election. The current President, Mr. Akinwumi Adesina, is already dealing with setbacks and a coup hell bent on removing him from office. This isn’t unexpected, considering the fact that Adesina is running for a second term in office… May 27, 2020 In "Viewpoint" In the face of the call by the United States government for a fresh investigation into some allegations against the President of the African Development Bank, AfDB, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, the former Director of Communication in the bank, Victor Oladokun, has dispelled the rumour that he has stepped down May 27, 2020 In "News"