Liverpool on Saturday criticised some of its own fans for “wholly unacceptable” behaviour after they crowded parts of the city to celebrate the team’s first championship in 30 years. In a joint statement with Merseyside Police and Liverpool City Council, the club condemned supporters who ignored coronavirus social distance guidance to gather at the Pier Head waterfront. “Our city is still in a public health crisis and this behaviour is wholly unacceptable,” read the statement. “The potential danger of a second peak of COVID-19 still exists and we need to work together to make sure we don’t undo everything that has been achieved as a region during lockdown.” Liverpool’s mayor, Joe Anderson, also condemned the scenes, claiming on Twitter they had brought a “negative focus” on the city. Social media images showed a firework hitting the Liver Bird building, one of the city’s most famous landmarks, during a second night of celebrations on Friday. Vast amounts of rubbish were cleared by the council on Saturday morning. Liverpool secured the English Premier League title on Thursday night after their only rivals, Manchester City, lost 2-1 to Chelsea, meaning Liverpool could not be caught. Prior to the title being won, police and local authorities had warned fans not to gather because of the fear of further spreading the coronavirus. Police had urged fans to celebrate only with family members as they claimed Liverpool had been “disproportionately affected” by Covid-19. VANGUARD Liverpool were crowned Premier League champions on Thursday as Chelsea's win over Manchester City ended the Reds' 30-year wait to win the English title, with jubilant fans ignoring social-distancing guidelines to converge on Anfield. Jurgen Klopp's men sealed a 19th league title with a record seven games remaining after defeat… June 26, 2020 In "Sports" Virgil Van Dijk fears Liverpool will be forced to celebrate their first English title for 30 years in an empty stadium as a result of coronavirus chaos. All Premier League games have been postponed until at least April 3 due to the spread of the global pandemic. Premier League chiefs… March 15, 2020 In "Sports" Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp cannot wait for English football's return after a three-month layoff due to the coronavirus pandemic and promised to celebrate the Premier League title in style when it is safe to do so. Liverpool are just two wins away from securing their first league title in 30… June 2, 2020 In "Sports"