Supporters of former Ivorian President Laurent Gbagbo and his political ally Charles Blé Goudé are eagerly awaiting the return of the duo as the country readies for keenly awaited presidential elections. Gbagbo’s travel restrictions from Belgium were lifted this week by the ICC, igniting talks of his return to the country. Supporters at a press conference said all was set to receive the former president. Saraka Patrice, secretary-general for the Pan-African Congress for Justice and Equality said: “We are convinced that Charles Blé Goudé and President Laurent Gbagbo will be in Côte d’Ivoire very, very soon, that is the main thing. “It could be tomorrow, it could be the day after tomorrow. The day is not what is important, because you even know that we have been calling for the lifting of restrictive measures for a long time. We were convinced that these measures were going to be lifted.” The supporters further called for President Alassane Ouattara to lead a national reconciliation in the interest of peace in the West African nation. “We appeal to the President of the Republic, Mr. Alassane Ouattara, to his political party, the unified RHDP, and to the government to seize this opportunity to commit Côte d’Ivoire definitively to the path of true reconciliation and lasting peace,” Assoa Adou of the IPF also added. Gbagbo can leave Belgium under certain conditions, the International Criminal Court has said, following his acquittal last year over post-election violence that killed an estimated 3,000 people. Gbagbo, the first African head of state to stand trial in The Hague, and his deputy Charles Ble Goude were cleared in early 2019 of crimes against humanity – eight years after their arrest and arraignment before the court. Africa News Vanguard Charles Ble-Goude, an ally of former Cote d’Ivoire President Laurent Gbagbo, has been sentenced in absentia to 20 years in prison by a court in Abidjan, for his role in the civil war. The civil war followed the 2010 presidential election, his lawyers said. Ble-Goude headed the notorious Young Patriots… December 31, 2019 In "Foreign" The International Criminal Court on Thursday said former Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo can leave Belgium under certain conditions following his acquittal last year over post-electoral violence that killed 3,000 people. Gbagbo and his deputy Charles Ble Goude were both cleared of crimes against humanity a year ago, eight years… May 30, 2020 In "News" THE European Union is set to impose a travel ban on Ivory Coast’s incumbent President Laurent Gbagbo over disputed elections, a diplomat told the British Broadcasting Corporation, BBC, yesterday. December 21, 2010 In "News"