 Tragedy occurred on Monday as Senator representing Lagos East in the National Assembly, Mr. Adebayo Sikiru Osinowo, is dead. He was aged 64. Osinowo popularly known as (Pepperito), an All Progressives Congress, APC, stalwart and lawmaker, was a former member of Lagos State House of Assembly for 16 years. Osinowo succeeded two-term Senator Gbenga Ashafa at the Senate. However, Osinowo was said to have died of COVID-19 complications, there were conflicting reports that he had been at the special intensive unit of Lagos cardiologist centre, Ikoyi, on COVID-19 treatment. Another report had it that three days earlier, he was taking in at the Yaba Infectious Diseases Hospital (IDH) before his death on Monday, June 15th. APC mourns Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Lagos confirmed the report, describing it as ‘regrettable.” The Publicity Secretary of APC in Lagos, Mr. Seye Oladejo, when contacted, said, “Its true, Osinowo is dead. This is regrettable at this critical period.” APC statement read, “The All Progressives Congress, Lagos State, regret to announce the passage of Senator Bayo Osinowo, the senator representing Lagos East. “We commiserate with our National Leader, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, his immediate family and the entire Lagos State APC on this shocking loss. “Senator Bayo Osinowo, it will be recalled, was in the forefront of the battle to entrench democratic governance. He was, particularly, a leading light, in the struggle for the revalidation of June 12. “He was a strong pillar and a stabilizing force as a long-serving member of the Lagos State House of Assembly. “Pepper, as he was widely known, will be remembered for his wise counsel, matured leadership, loyalty to the party and commitment to democratic ideals. “May Almighty Allah repose his soul, forgive his sins and grant his numerous admirers the fortitude to bear this great loss.” Osinowo, who is representing Lagos East Senatorial District in the 9th National Assembly, according to Wikipedia, worked with the Federal Ministry of Works, Lagos State. In 1977, he started his career as a Land Officer at the Federal Ministry of Works till 1979, He then became the Managing Director at NITAL International from 1986 to 2003. He then became the Managing Director at NIMCO International Co. Ltd from 1990 to 2003. He also worked as Managing Director, at Extreme Piling and Construction Company Ltd and NIMCO Dredging Company from 1990 to 2003. Osinowo began his political life in the second republic serving as a youth Chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). The state Chairman was late Bashorun Moshood Kashimawo Abiola, MKO. He was the longest-serving member of the Lagos State House of Assembly before he was elevated to the National Assembly as Senator, representing Lagos East. Sanwo-Olu alerts on ravaging COVID-19 in Lagos Also, recall that Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said this during the 2020 Democracy Day celebration message on Friday, explained that the exponential increase in COVID-19 infection figures on the state might continue for a while longer before the curve is flattened. He, therefore, urged residents not to be lured into an illusion that COVID-19 is over, even when the number of cases begins to decline. He, however, assured that things are under control despite the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases being recorded in the state. According to Sanwo-Olu, “what essence is life without obstacles? Which leads to the issue of the COVID-19 pandemic, already described as the most disruptive occurrence of our lifetime. “It has been a very challenging period, for all of us: Government, businesses, offices, schools, places of worship, and citizens. “Lagos State remains the epicentre of the pandemic in Nigeria. “We are still seeing an increase in infection figures, and this trend is likely to continue for a while longer before we are able to succeed in flattening the curve. “Dear Lagosians, against this backdrop, let me stress this fact: that there is no reason to panic or be alarmed.” Sanwo-Olu added that “the increasing infection figures is not an indication that things are out of control but it reveals the effectiveness of the new testing, tracing and tracking approaches and strategies we are adopting.” Vanguard News Nigeria Sen. Bayo Osinowo, representing Lagos East Senatorial District in the Senate on Saturday reiterated that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) would not let Nigerians down. August 4, 2019 In "News" •Obasa fights Osinowo, Aregbesola, Mandate group over power •Teams up with Gbajabiamila, Ojora, Olusi, others By Our Reporters Since the indefinite suspension of two lawmakers and demotion of two principal officers at the Lagos State House of Assembly, things are no longer at ease. The Assembly that used to be… March 13, 2020 In "Politics" THE stage is set for an epic battle for the Lagos East Senatorial seat with Senator Gbenga Ashafa pitched in battle with a four-time member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Adebayo Osinowo. September 18, 2018 In "Politics"