Israeli police on Tuesday said it arrested a suspect over alleged threats against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on social media. The Police’s national cyber unit identified the suspect as a 21-year-old man from northern Israeli. According to Israeli news outlet ynet, the suspect is an Israeli soldier and was set to appear before a court in central Israel on Tuesday. “A few days ago I filed a complaint with the police about a series of threats to kill me and my family,” Netanyahu wrote on Twitter on Monday. “Today, to my regret, I was forced to file another complaint against a despicable person who detailed how he plans to kill me and my family,” he added, attaching a screenshot of a threat against him. The screenshot included a suggestion to behead the Netanyahu family and hang their bodies from the balcony of the prime minister’s residence in Jerusalem. In May, police said Yair Netanyahu, the prime minister’s son, had filed complaints over threats and incitement against him. In recent weeks, Netanyahu has been the subject of protests both for and against him, as his corruption trial began last week, making him the first sitting prime minister in the country’s history to stand trial. Israel’s longest-serving prime minister was officially indicted on bribery, fraud and breach of trust in January. Following three general elections in less than a year, Netanyahu was sworn in last month as the head of an emergency unity government including his Likud party and the centrist Blue and White Alliance of his former main rival Benny Gantz. Vanguard News Nigeria Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is to be questioned as a suspect in a further case of alleged corruption and as a witness in another, Israeli media reported Sunday. February 25, 2018 In "News" Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's son has been caught on tape seemingly drunk outside a strip club talking about a key natural gas deal, leading to political fallout on Tuesday. January 9, 2018 In "News" After more than a year of investigations, Israeli police said Tuesday they have found evidence that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu took bribes, in an announcement that could send shock waves through the country’s political system. Police said they found an “evidentiary basis” for bribery fraud and breach of trust. From… February 14, 2018 In "News"