The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Sunday challenged the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Edo gubernatorial election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, to make public any positive comment that has ever been made on him by the former National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The party in a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that the challenge is predicated on the defeatist statement credited to Ize-Iyamu who, being mortally devastated by myriads of negative public commentaries on him by Oshiomhole, is now claiming that the former governor also made some fair remarks about him. Read the full statement below: “It is already in the public domain that Oshiomhole, in his official capacity as governor of Edo state, declared and even swore before God and man that Ize-Iyamu is an impostor, a fake pastor, rusticated student, a career dropout, acid bath assailant, liar, treasury looter; an incompetent and questionable character, who is only good for night meetings and not fit to be the governor of Edo state, among other damaging testimonials. Furthermore, Ize-Iyamu’s claims, that Oshiomhole did not speak from his heart when he went public on him, is completely defeatist as the former governor repeatedly stated that he bore full responsibility for the statements he made against the APC candidate. Our party notes that Ize-Iyamu is not pursuing any defamation case to disprove the former governor. Instead, he is claiming that Oshiomhole also made certain fair comments on him. The PDP hereby challenges Ize Iyamu to make such positive comments by Oshiomhole public. Moreover, Ize-Iyamu must note that while he is seeking an unattainable cleansing in political purgatory, the people of Edo state have move on in their irrevocable decision to continue to develop their state under the leadership of Governor Godwin Obaseki and nothing, not even the lies, propaganda, vindictiveness and selfish interests of APC and its leaders can change the course of victory for Governor Obaseki in the September election.” Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Monday said that the elected governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu is no match to any of its aspirants in the coming Edo Gubernatorial election. June 22, 2020 In "News" THE emergence of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu as consensus candidate of a faction of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State loyal to the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has increased the stakes in the governorship race in the state. May 31, 2020 In "News" Following the expiration of the seven-day ultimatum issued to Governor Adams Oshiomhole of Edo State by the group of the All Progressives Congress (APC) loyal to the former Vice Chairman, South- south of the defunct ACN, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, members of the group, last Monday resigned from the APC en-masse. May 11, 2014 In "Politics"