The US Supreme Court dealt President Donald Trump’s efforts to choke off immigration a fresh blow Thursday when it rejected his cancellation of the DACA program protecting 700,000 “Dreamers,” undocumented migrants brought to the United States as children. The high court said Trump’s 2017 move to cancel his predecessor Barack Obama’s landmark Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program was “arbitrary and capricious” under government administrative procedures. The judgement on a five-to-four vote, with Chief Justice John Roberts siding with the court’s four liberal members, stressed that it was not an assessment of the correctness of the 2012 DACA program itself. Instead, they said the Trump administration had violated official government procedures in the way they sought to quickly rescind DACA in September 2017 based on weak legal justifications. The decision came three and a half years after Trump entered office promising to halt almost all immigration and to expel the more than 10 million people estimated living in the country, many for decades, without legal immigration documents. The Obama administration had sought to address this issue in 2012 with the DACA policy offering protection at renewable two-year periods, including authorization to work, to people brought into the United States illegally as children, and then growing up here. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The U.S. Supreme Court on Monday dealt a setback to President Donald Trump, requiring his administration to maintain protections he has sought to end for hundreds of thousands of immigrants brought illegally into the United States as children. February 26, 2018 In "News" An Anambra-based businessman, Dr. Richard Ndubuaku, has dragged the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, and its leader, Nnamdi Kanu before the Federal High Court in Abuja, asking it to restrain them, their agents and members from making utterances or taking actions capable of jeopardising the conduct of election in the… September 6, 2017 In "News" President Donald Trump lashed out Wednesday at the US judicial system as "broken and unfair" after a judge blocked his decision to end a program that protects so-called "Dreamers" from deportation. January 10, 2018 In "Law & Human Rights"