Alhaja Ariat Smith, wife of the former Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Musiliu Smith, is dead. She was aged 69. The incident occurred late Friday, June 5, after she succumbed to an undisclosed illness. According to an announcement by Lagos State government, signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, the deceased will be buried today, Saturday, June 6 according to Islamic rites. On the death wife of former Inspector-General of Police, the statement read in part: “Lagos State Government, on behalf of the Smith family, wishes to announce the passage of our mother and grandmother, Alhaja Ariat Aderoju Smith (nee Jinadu) who died on Friday, June 5, at the age of 69. “The remains of late Alhaja Ariat Smith will be buried on Saturday, June 6, in accordance with Muslim rites. “Only immediate family members will be allowed at the burial rites, in strict compliance with the NCDC/Lagos State Government’s guidelines on COVID-19 social distancing protocol. “May Allah grant her Aljanah Firdaus.” The deceased is survived by her husband, Musiliu A. K. Smith; children: Mr. Mujeed Adekunle Smith and Mrs. Atiat Olubunmi Sheidu. Recall that Smith was appointed as Inspector-General of Police in May 1999, and retired in March 2002. Vanguard A former Minister of State for Defence, Sen. Musiliu Obanikoro, has described his late mother, Alhaja Wasilat Obanikoro, as a disciplinarian who made great impact on the lives of her children and the people around her. June 4, 2017 In "News" The Lagos State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday condoled with the former Minister of State for Defence, Sen. Musiliu Obanikoro, over the death of his mother, Alhaja Wosilat Obanikoro. Alhaja Obanikoro died at the age 95 years on Saturday at her residence in Lagos. June 5, 2017 In "News" Lagos literally stood still, yesterday, as the President-General, Association of Nigerian Market Women and Men, Alhaja Abibatu Mogaji, who died last Saturday aged 96, was buried at the Vaults and Garden Cemetery, Ikoyi, amidst eulogies. June 17, 2013 In "News"