Guinea’s President, Alpha Conde, on Wednesday, declared he was fit and well and would “bury” many of his enemies as rumours persisted that his health was deteriorating. Conde, 82, said in an interview with Sabari FM radio that he was making fewer public appearances and had stopped receiving visitors on the advice of his doctors, due to the coronavirus pandemic. Rumours had been circulating widely this week that Conde, one of Africa’s oldest leaders, was being hospitalised. Conde made the comments after Burundian President Pierre Nkurunziza suddenly died on Monday at the age of 55, sparking suspicions on the country’s social media of death from poisoning or COVID-19. “I assure the Guinean people that I am as fit as a fiddle and I am sure I will bury many people who wish me dead,” Conde said, adding that he would continue to “do sport”. The impoverished West African country has struggled to curb coronavirus despite enacting travel restrictions and a curfew. More than 4,200 cases have been recorded, including 23 deaths. Some senior figures are among the fatalities, including government’s secretary general Sekou Kourouma, a close ally to the president. Conde, elected in 2010 and re-elected in 2015, blamed the rumours on his opponents and their “political negligence”. Anger at Conde over suspected plans to run for a third term at the end of the year has sparked protests in which dozens have died. Conde has been evasive for months about his intentions, without denying his possible candidacy. “Right now, I’m working on defeating (coronavirus),” he said on Wednesday. “Each party will decide on its candidate and I will follow my party’s decision” for the presidential election, he said. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Guinea's President Alpha Conde on Friday announced a "slight postponement" of Sunday's referendum on whether to adopt a new constitution, after months of protests sparked by fears the poll is a ruse to keep him in power "It is due to our national and regional responsibilities that we have accepted… February 29, 2020 In "Foreign" Guinea's opposition on Saturday called for the cancellation of a referendum on changing the constitution, as fresh protests against President Alpha Conde's government broke out in the capital Conakry. Conde on Friday announced the referendum, planned for Sunday, would be postponed -- possibly for two weeks -- following growing domestic… February 29, 2020 In "Foreign" President Muhammadu Buhari has accepted his nomination to lead members of the African Union on anti-corruption crusade. July 25, 2017 In "News"