GENERAL Overseer of the  Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, Friday night, said the  founder of the church, Reverend Josiah Akindayomi, was the destiny helper whom God used to bring him to his place of destiny. Adeboye gave the affirmation while delivering his monthly Holy Ghost Service message titled ‘Let there be light 6’, at the June 2020 Holy Ghost night. The cleric revealed that he had just spent two years in the church when Pa Akindayomi ordained him as a full pastor, noting that the action was unprecedented in the annals of the church. According to him, one of the men who was similarly ordained same day with him had spent almost 15 years in the church before he was ordained pastor. “Some jokers say it is easy to be a pastor in RCCG, that after six months that one could be ordained a pastor”, Adeboye said. “Let them come and see how easy it is to be ordained as pastor. They think it is easy. “You will see how long it will take you to go from being a worker, to being a deacon, then to being an assistant pastor before being ordained as a pastor”. He further went on to cite several instances of miraculous interventions in the lives of people who carried out instructions God gave to them, stressing that the solutions to all human problems have been made available along with creation. Vanguard A multitude of accompanied children from across the nation, on Friday night, listened, with rapt attention, when the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, relived how he objected to his election to be a pastor by the founder of the church, the late… April 6, 2014 In "News" "In the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God". The trinity is well organized into dispensations. The eternity past (we know God has no beginning) up to the Old Testament period was the dispensation of God the Father. August 3, 2014 In "Special Report" EIGHTY EIGHT babies were delivered at the just concluded 60th annual convention of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, which held at the Holy Ghost Arena in the Redemption Camp along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. August 15, 2012 In "Worship"