Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has directed the Nigerian Army and Police to take over Isinkwo-Ukawu and Abaomege communities of Onicha Local Government Area of the state and immediately restore law and order in both communities. The directive which is contained in a statement signed by Mr Uchenna Orji, the State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, on Sunday stated that the governor is saddened by developments in both communities. The statement said that the governor expressed dismay over the activities of the youth in both communities who resorted to taking ‘laws into their hands’ and inflicting injuries on the people because of land dispute. “The state government has henceforth taken over the disputed land effective from June 6, 2020, in line with the laws of the state. “The governor has directed the state Commissioner for Lands and Survey to immediately acquire the disputed land for the government, in overriding public interest,” the statement read. The statement added that Umahi further warned both communities to ‘pull out’ completely from the disputed land. “All concerned are to take this matter seriously,” the statement read. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that similar violence had erupted in Izzi recently where over seven houses were burnt at Amuzu village in Igbeagu community of Izzi Local Government Area, over a village headship tussle. The crisis resulted in the arrest of no fewer than eight persons by the police including the traditional ruler. Vanguard Nigeria News EBONYI State Police Command, yesterday confirmed the killing of three persons in renewed hostility between the people of Onweonweiya and Mkpumaekweoku communities in Izzi local government area of Ebonyi State. November 16, 2016 In "News" Chairman of South East Governors' Forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, Mr David Umahi, yesterday, stated that the South-East governors have concluded arrangements to re-absorb, rehabilitate and empower youths who were misled by the agitation of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, in the country. September 27, 2017 In "News" Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has ordered the suspension of Mr Declan Ovunna, Coordinator of Alike Development Centre in Ikwo Local Government Area over the renewed violence by youths from a  community. May 1, 2018 In "News"