President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday met behind closed door with Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Recall that the meeting which was at the instance of the governor came ahead of the governorship primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC), scheduled for June 2020. Speaking to State House correspondents at the end of the meeting, Obaseki said he was at the Presidential Villa to formally intimate the president of his intention to seek re-election as governor of Edo on the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC). The governor, who is believed to be at loggerhead with the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiohmole, over his second term ambition, presented his Expression of Interest form to the president for the blessing. “I came to see Mr. President to formally inform him of my desire and intention to seek re-election as governor of Edo State on the platform of the APC in the forthcoming gubernatorial election. “As a father of the country, as our president, I should not just assume or take things for granted – I have to come to inform him and solicit his support in my gubernatorial bid, and the president was quiet warm and quiet welcoming. “When I showed him my Expression of Interest form, he looked through it and teased me that he would not have to go through this again and wished me good luck and assured me of his support,’’ he said. On the political tussle in Edo, the governor stated that the crisis was being instigated from outside the state. Obaseki also described the political misunderstanding between him and Oshiohmole as very unfortunate, saying however that he was ready to reach a truce with all aggrieved members of the APC. “It is unfortunate that he (Oshiohmole) is taking the position he has taken. I believe that he was not properly guided. “I am his Governor and it is my responsibility to seek peace for my State and with all my citizens. “I will continue to strive for peace, I will continue to pursue peace, seek the interest of our people and I am open, that we should talk about how to move things forward. “The relationship is still frosty but I am doing all I can to try and make it warm just for the sake of Edo people. I am committed to whatever it will take to have peace and not to lose lives in Edo, within the law, whatever I can do that is constitutional, I will do,’’ he stated. According to the governor, he has the full support of his counterparts, all the governors elected on the platform of the APC, in line with the principles of the party, which encourages continuity. On the COVID-19 pandemic, the governor revealed that about 300,000 out of the targeted 500,000 indigenes of the state had so far been screened for Coronavirus disease PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress , APC, governors are in a closed door meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. April 25, 2018 In "Politics" President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday met behind closed door with governors elected on the platform of the ruling All Progressive Congress(APC) at the Presidential villa, Abuja. April 24, 2018 In "News" ABUJA-PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari yesterday met behind closed doors with Governors of the All Progressives Congress, APC, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. December 5, 2019 In "News"