“This government (Buhari’s) has failed Nigerians over and over with unending unfulfilled promises. Citizens are not enjoying any dividend of democracy because the system has failed to deliver these benefits. “In fact, most of us have lost faith in democracy as an ideal political system.” —Bakare Oyinkansola, OAP “The current administration is more of a gerontocracy than democracy. The youth are sidelined which ought not to be because they dominate the larger population. “Buhari’s administration has failed to adhere to democratic tenets. His government also has no respect for human rights.”
—Babaita Okikiola, Poet “The whole point of democracy is the rule of law, and under the administration of PMB we’ve seen the expression of some of these rights and laws but most of it has not been expressed. “I believe this administration can do better. This government has the right persons to make a change.” —Ogunkunle Emmanuel, Analyst “President Buhari-led administration has used the fight against corruption as a major lining to bring back democracy, but accountability and transparency in governance is lacking. “Democracy this year is nothing worth celebrating, rather we have to sit back and look at our mistakes and make corrections.
—Omogbemile Kayode, Actor “Coming from an angle of inclusiveness and equity which is pertinent to democratic ideas, it can be construed that this has not been evident in Nigeria. “The democratic values have deteriorated so much that people are beginning to lose hope. Our democracy is obviously not working the way it should.” —Temidayo Adebimpe, Mediapreneur “When the institutions that are meant to provide checks and balances, such as the NASS and the Supreme Court, are subdued; there is no democracy. “Since President Buhari took over power, his administration has repeatedly used the fight against corruption as a tool to side-step the judiciary. —Joseph Tanimola, Banker Vanguard News Nigeris. Alhaji Jamiu Abiola is the son of the June 12, 1993 presidential election winner, late Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale and Kudirat Abiola. Jamiu is the Author of four books: ‘Realistic Hopes, The Prisoner of Conscience, The President who never Ruled and The Stolen Presidency. In this interview, the multi-lingual Shettima… May 31, 2019 In "News" Those who have always doubted the possibility that a former military despot would change in a democratic dispensation may not be far from the truth. August 4, 2018 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari in his Democracy Day Speech on June 12 2019 declared that in the last four years, his administration has made solid progress in addressing challenges of security, economy and fighting corruption admitting however that “some of the challenges still remain in kidnappings and banditry in some rural… June 29, 2019 In "News"