THE incumbent deputy governor of Ondo State, Hon Agboola Ajayi Sunday resigned his membership of the All Progressive Congress (APC). He pointedly declared that he would not resign his appointment as the state deputy governor no matter the intimidation. Ajayi, thereafter, picked the membership card of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party at his Kirobo, Apoi Ward 2 Ese Odo. The terse two paragraphs letter was addressed to both the ward and Ese- Odo council chairmen. It reads “l write to tender my resignation as a member of the All Progressive Congress. “l sincerely appreciate the party for the opportunity to serve while wishing the party the best. Addressing the party leaders which include party council chairman, Hon Ajayi Samuel, the party’s ward, Turo David, and a leader party leader in Ese- Odo, Chief Koldoye, the deputy governor thanked them for their previous support. Ajayi said “l want to thank you, for the support, I have enjoyed tremendous support from the ward. “l am here to officially announce to you that as from today I have seized to be a member of APC, I want to tender my resignation letter to my chairman and the ward chairman. “The Ese Odo local government will continue to witness peace and progress. “The reason I am taken this action is known to all of you. I have listened to all my supporters before taking this decision. “lt is a painful thing that I’m leaving the APC, but there time for everything. “We have the fundamental freedom to belong to any party or group. Also speaking at the PDP party secretariat where he joined and picked his membership card, Ajayi said that what he did was ” homecoming” being a former member of the party. The ward chairman Festus Oboro while registering the deputy governor and presenting the party’s membership card to him welcome him back to his “home and family.” Oboro said that Ajayi would definitely add value to the party in the state. Ajayi said that the people of the state should expect a change that would be beneficial to them. Responding, Ajayi said: “What will happen in this state is going to be like a tsunami as many bigwigs in the APC will be joining the PDP in a matter of days. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:  Vanguard The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) grew messier yesterday after two claims emerged on the suspension of its National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. June 21, 2020 In "News" THE Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday picked their deputy governorship candidates ahead of the November 26 election. October 13, 2016 In "Politics" Hon. Ojo Omolewa, Caretaker Committee Chairman of Ese-Odo Local Government council of Ondo State, has emerged the flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the coming local government elections in the state. The election, held at Igbekebo town hall in the council headquarters on Friday, had Omolewa polling… February 7, 2020 In "Politics"