After a protracted battle with past administrations,  Stakeholders from Umuagwo in Imo state have lent  their full support to governor  Hope Uzodinma to establish new Imo state university of Agriculture and Environmental sciences on their land, just as the government  set up a committee to midwife the take of of the university in September. The stakeholders had hitherto vehemently battled with past administrations against the establishment of the university because of the provision of a Public Private Partnership (PPP) and multi campus arrangement,in the law establishing the university. The stakeholders said they believed that the PPP provision was  a ploy by a former governor to take over the university after leaving office, insisting that it must be hundred percent owned by government. But their  spokesman , Goddy Obodo,   told newsmen yesterday at the government house owerri, after the inauguration of the committee on the implementation of the university, that their fears were assuaged when governor Uzodimma amended the law and removed the PPP clause Uzodimma on Friday set up a committee on the guidelines for the implementation of the take-off of the Imo new University located in Umuagwo.Ohaji-Egbema with Prof. Ukachuwku Awuzie, former Vice Chancellor of the Imo State University and former President of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), as the Chairman. Others members of the Committee are; Mrs. Uwandu Uzoma Beatrice, the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Education (Secretary), Prof Victor Kogah, Prof Chidozie C. Eze, Prof Nkechi Ogoh, Prof Alloy Ojilere, Prof B. C Nwosu, Assoc. Prof Nwulu and Dr. T. I Igwe. Vanguard The final declaration of Sen Hope Uzodimma as the duly elected governor of Imo state came like an electrifying thunder bolt. January 18, 2020 In "Viewpoint" The attention was not so much on what he said, though what he said was weighty; in fact too serious and thought provoking to be ignored. January 20, 2019 In "Viewpoint" IMO State governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress, APC, Sen. Hope Uzodimma has called on leaders to avoid making inflammatory Statements that can worsen the security challenges in the country July 23, 2019 In "News"