Lagosians have been urged to embrace cycling as a sport and means of exercise to generally overcome the effects of ill health through interaction with their environment. Speaking during a webinar organised by the Cycology Riding Club & African Cycling Foundation in Collaboration with the United  Nations Information Centre, UNIC, Lagos, the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, described cycling as an enjoyable sporting activity that is aimed at contributing to the State’s One Health Agenda. The webinar themed: “Bicycles as Drivers of Post COVID-19  Green Economy”, was a conversation among key stakeholders in Lagos State geared towards getting more people to start riding for health, environment, transport, and socioeconomic benefits. Abayomi said: “I encourage cycling whenever I can because it is a noble sport. Cycling enables you have fun and exercise at the same time. Cycling in the context of Lagos State One Health Initiative addresses the holistic view of health, that is, human beings living in the biosphere which means you can only be as healthy as the environment you in life in and as the food you eat, and the activity you engage in. Enjoyable sports activity can contribute to One Health Agenda looking at the statistics around the world.” Highlighting some of the benefits of cycling he said it includes improvement of cardiovascular and respiratory health among others. “Up to 28 percent of trips in Europe are made by cycling but in Nigeria, the percentage is less than 5 percent. Cycling is an aerobic exercise it helps to build the muscle, expand the cardiovascular and respiratory agility it enables you to keep fit. “The Lagos State Government has embarked on smart city agenda which is to create an environment for cyclists and pedestrians to enjoy free movement across the city, this involves urban planning, creating cycle lanes, areas for normal vehicular movements, areas for pedestrians and cyclists. “This is an important aspect of urban planning we need to take into consideration in the future. It is our responsibility as the Lagos State Ministry of Environment,  road traffic protection agency, Ministry of Transportation, and Lagos State Ministry of Health to ensure that we do indeed turn into a smart healthy city, a green city, a city where we are mindful about how much carbon we put into the environment, how much space we create for recreation, for sport, the quality of the water system, toxicity in the environment, the greening of the city, like other megacities around the world.” vanguard Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, yesterday, said the COVID-19 tests in all approved testing centres in Lagos State are free of charge. April 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Chioma Obinna The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi Thursday said COVID19 tests in all approved testing centres in Lagos State are free of charge. Reacting to alleged reports of patients paying N30, 000 for COVID-19 test at Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, approved Centres in… April 16, 2020 In "Health" *Says obesity, diabetes, hypertension make people vulnerable to coronavirus By Chioma Obinna & Gabriel Olawale Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi, has said one out of every five Lagosians that exhibit respiratory symptoms are infected with COVID-19. Professor Abayomi also warned that the disease also affects the kidneys… April 29, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"