I think interior decoration is a gift for me that I was blessed with by God . I remember long ago in Benin and I think I was 6 years old. We went for an end-of-the-year annual cultural dance at the Palace of the Oba of Benin. I remembered vividly that the Oba walked up to me with a couple of chiefs and said that my head is meant for a crown. I never understood what that really meant but life experiences has showed me that I was blessed with a gift. I’m just happy that I realized it on time. I was doing insurance before but I was not really enjoying it. Sayaveth is a name I saw one day when I was seated with my kids watching cartoons and at the end of the the cartoon, I saw the name Sayaveth and I was like that name sounds nice and I was in joint venture at the time about 10 years ago then I opted out based on the advice of my banker so I started Sayaveth. Now, Sayaveth is a name that is known for luxury designs. When you talk about classic designs, classic decor and royal designs, the name Sayaveth comes to mind. At Sayaveth if you give me a house, I will turn it into a beautiful home. I never thought of giving up because it is something I really enjoy. Yes, we are making money but I love to walk into a space and when I come into a space I already almost know what I want to achieve for the entire space and space by space. From the finishing to the furniture to the decor to the accessories. I also work with the mood of my clients, I need to study the mood of my clients to know what they may like. At some point I will own a foundation but my job for now won’t permit it. I don’t want to run a foundation without putting in my best, by the grace of God maybe in two years, I would own a foundation. Sometimes, my mom would say Ehizogie you can’t help the whole world but I know some day I hope I can help a lot of people. Yeah, I’m going to celebrate with my family. I will be clocking 35 so a lot of reflection. I think on that day, I will just be at home celebrating with my family and maybe celebrate it in the office with my team. I used to dress according to my mood but lately I dress according to the job. When you are going to the site, you have to dress accordingly. I would I dress up to the occasion but I’m a very skin-conscious person. Vanguard Stunning, classy, dogged. Those are three words that best describe  Ehi Ogbebor, the CEO of Sayaveth Interiors & Hotels, one of Nigeria's biggest luxury interior designing firms. In less than nine years in a cut-throat, male-dominated terrain, Ogbebor, who ditched a high-flying insurance career to pursue her dream of beautifying… September 22, 2019 In "Entertainment" Mrs. Peju Okungbowa is the Creative Director of Shades of Purple Décor, an interior decoration and events outfit based in Lagos. She ventured into the interior decoration and events management business because of her love for creating beauty out of ordinary things and order out of chaos. January 8, 2012 In "Business" Unlike most entrepreneurs who stumble or dabble into entrepreneurship by chance, Nena Kalu Ogba, creative genius behind the label, Nena Kal Hunter, has always known what she wanted to be from a young age. In fact, she made her first dress after her mum bought a sewing machine for her… October 26, 2012 In "Lip Stick"