As sympathisers continue to mourn the demise of a former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi who died on Thursday, his former Special Adviser on Communication, Mr. Bolaji Tunji, said he is still finding the answers to his sudden departure, noting his boss followed all the COVID-19 protocols. Tunji, who wrote on his social media page, revealed that his principal had wanted to relocate to Abuja as a result of his new appointment as the Acting National Chairman of All Progressives Congress, APC, before he breathed his last. Tunji, who did not answer several calls to confirm the death of his principal probably due to shock, hinted that late Ajimobi observed all COVID-19 protocols. He wrote: “It was just like yesterday. He had received a call to come to Abuja. It was to discuss party matters. He was not sure of who would follow him. Because it was a private flight, he had limited options. He only went with his security aide. “He had told us earlier in our office in his Oluyole home that we would talk about the movement to Abuja, since he had become the Deputy National Chairman. “Our office had to shift to Abuja. He was in his usual caftan and cap, always impeccably dressed even at home except when he does his exercise every morning in his blue track down and blue stripe T-shirt and branded cap. “With his earpiece and phone in hand, he would walk round the building several times to exercise. “’We will leave by 2.p.m.’ he said that fateful day. A special private flight had been arranged for him.” “He radiated good health and we still marvelled that he still looked so good for his 70 years. Being 70 meant a lot to him and would jokingly call himself Baba 70. “As he left our wing of the house to the other side, a few of us in our usual manner trailed him. He spoke with a few people in the courtyard before he left to prepare for that trip. I never knew it was going to be the last time I would see him. “But in his usual organised manner, there was no pending issue. He had taken care of everything. He had signed all the letters of appointment for the peace and reconciliation committee.” Ajimobi followed COVID-19 protocols, took all necessary precautions Stressing his late Ajomobi’s strict COVID-19 protocol, Tunji, continued: “I still can’t wrap my head round what happened. “He was so healthy, he was neat, he took all the necessary precautions even while he sat with us in our open office he was always with his face mask, we always observe social distancing and we were always quick to give him hands sanitiser anytime he touched something. “We were conscious of his age and did all we could to ensure safety. We had three spots where you had to wash hands before entering the premises. “One at each of the main entrance gates and another by the entrance to our office. We observed all due protocols. So what happened? How did it happen? None of us was sick. So where did this come from? I am still trying to find answers.” Ex-governor was convinced to accept APC appointment The late governor’s spokesman hinted that Senator Ajimobi never solicited for the APC appointment but had to accept it after being convinced. His words: “He never wanted anything else after the general election. He only wanted to take a long, due rest after serving for eight years without break. “But another position was thrust on him. He never solicited for it and he did not want. But they convinced him to accept. I know because in his usual forthrightness, he narrated how it happened. “He took the position because he felt it would benefit his people. ‘ I have done my bit. There is nothing I set out to achieve that I did not; I cannot be governor again, but I cannot leave you people ‘, he would say. “But what went wrong? I am at a loss. I was so sure he would get up from the sickbed. I was so sure because there were unfinished businesses. There were so many tasks that he had planned ahead to better the lot of the people. So I was convinced he would come to complete those tasks and those plans. I never knew it would end this way. Still mourning how Ajimobi succumbed to COVID-19 despite following the protocols, Tunji went down memory lane: “A legend is born with the death of a hero. You will forever remain in my heart, in our heart. “I have learned so much from you. You were a willing teacher. You would deliberately sit with us and tell us about life experiences. The idea was to learn from you. And we learned. You would have been surprised if we had not learned. ” As you were quick to point out, you never had an academic Ph.D, but you had Ph.D in experiences and what life had to teach. “I can go on and on reminiscing about you. About that other side that people never saw. That soft part of you that people never knew existed. “This is cathartic for me because I am still in shock. I am at a loss. Everything within a month. Did we see this coming? No. Not this. Not that you would go so soon. Were there signs? Yes. From the unlikeliest of sources. But not like this. Not to death. “Though the music stopped, the melody continues. You will forever be remembered. Goodnight, sir. Vanguard FORMER governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi died, yesterday, at the age of 70. Before the latest information filtered in, his alleged death was rumoured about one and half weeks ago which was later dispelled by his media aide, Mr. Bolaji Tunji and one of his children. June 26, 2020 In "News" By Rasheed Sobowale Against rumour of the demise of the former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, his daughter-in-law and media aide have confirmed the ex-governor is still alive. The daughter-in-law, Fatima Ganduje-Ajimobi, denouncing the rumour stated in a tweet that "our father is still alive, alhamdulillah". Thank you… June 18, 2020 In "News" By Ola Ajayi - Ibadan THERE was great apprehension in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, over the state of health of the immediate past governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi. Some minutes past 8pm on Thursday, there were rumours that his health had further deteriorated which prompted so many insinuations. Even though… June 19, 2020 In "News"