To foster social impact in line with the new National Housing Fund (Establishment) Act 2018, First Home Mortgage, FMB, and Brokers have partnered with Wiretooth Technologies Ltd. on an app, Firsthome.ng, to automate mortgage pre-application process and also support applicants toward timely assessment of mortgage funds. In a statement by FMB’s Managing Director, Mrs Olajumoke Fashanu, she noted that Firsthome.ng, developed to make it easy for more persons to get the opportunity to own their homes, is part of the company’s 10 million personal houses initiative that help people start the pre-application process without leaving the comfort of their offices or homes. She noted that according to the National Bureau of Statistics, NBS, as of 2012, Nigeria had a deficit of 17 million houses and required 700,000 houses annually, compared to less than 100,000 currently being constructed. Emphasising the importance of Firsthome.ng, Mrs Fashanu said despite National Housing Fund, NHF, Acts designed to provide housing for low-income earners in Nigerians, many are yet to take advantage of it. She added: “Firsthome.ng simplifies the process, allowing for submission of documents and assistance from agents on how best to package mortgage applications. “The platform, easily accessible on our site or Google play store, also offer referral bonus for referrals on the platform. All users have access to benefiting from the bonus.” Vanguard “The most important thing is the allowances of the utilisation of the retirement savings balance for the provision of a primary home. For the first time, you are now able, as a contributor, to utilise part of your balance to secure your own primary home in accordance with the guidelines… May 25, 2015 In "Homes & Property" The inability of prospective homeowners to readily come up with the required equity contribution on mortgages has been identified as one of the factors slowing down the process of mortgage origination in Nigeria, Financial Vanguard investigation has revealed. It also partly explains the nation's huge housing deficit of more than… May 11, 2015 In "Homes & Property" THE Federal Government said last week that a staggering $30 million would be required to provide adequate housing for the teeming homeless Nigerians. The country would also need to build about 60 million housing units. February 7, 2012 In "Homes & Property"