The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in a meeting today, the 23rd June 2020 deliberated on a range of issues including the ongoing conduct of Party Primaries relating to the Edo Governorship election slated for the 19th September 2020, the Court Orders emanating from the administration of political parties and conduct of the primaries, as well as the Code of Conduct and Rules of Engagement for Security Officials on Electoral Duty. The outcome of the meeting was disclosed in a statement made available to newsmen on Tuesday by Festus Okoye Esq. National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee. On Party Primaries in Edo 2020 election, the Commission notes that the conduct of party primaries, including resolution of disputes arising therefrom will end on Saturday 27th June 2020, while the submission of the list of candidates the parties propose to sponsor at the election and affidavits of validly nominated candidates will close at 6pm on Monday 29th June 2020. In view of this and as part of its commitment to deepen the use of technology in elections, the Commission will conduct a training programme for Liaison Officers nominated by all the registered Political Parties on the use of the INEC Portal for uploading nomination forms of candidates. The training will take place at the Conference Hall of the Commission on Thursday 26th and Friday 27th June 2020 in two batches, to allow for physical distancing in line with the COVID-19 protocols. Court Orders The party stated that political Parties should note that the organisation and scheduling of various activities and processes leading to the conduct of elections are complex and involve extensive and careful planning and any disruption of these processes comes at a huge cost to the nation. The spate and tenor of pre-election litigations and the conflicting orders emanating therefrom can harm the smooth conduct of primaries and the upcoming elections. The Commission is closely monitoring the cases arising from the administration of political parties, the conduct of primaries and nomination of candidates. This notwithstanding, the Commission restates its avowed commitment to continue to obey all orders and judgements from properly constituted courts in accordance with the rule of law. Code of Conduct and Rules of  Engagement for Security Officials on Electoral Duty The Commission also considered the report from the meeting of the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES), which recently approved a Code of Conduct and Rules of Engagement for Security Officials on Electoral Duty. The Code is signed by the Chairman of INEC, the National Security Adviser (NSA) as Co-Chairman of ICCES and the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) as head of the lead agency in election security. The said Code will be uploaded on the websites of the Commission, the Office of the NSA and the Nigeria Police Force on Thursday 25th June 2020. Vanguard Nigeria News ABUJA: Ahead of political party governorship primary elections slated for between June 2 and 27 in Edo state, the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has warned parties against exposing electoral officials and other stakeholders to harm, urging them to shun acts to the contrary. June 9, 2020 In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has said it will obey orders from properly-constituted courts, assuring that it was monitoring the cases arising from the administration of political parties, conduct of primaries and nomination of candidates. The electoral body also said pre-elections litigations and conflicting court orders will harm the… June 23, 2020 In "Politics" The Peoples Democratic Party PDP yesterday was on its way to losing out of the September 19 Governorship Election in Edo state following its decision to reschedule its primary election without recourse to the guidelines released by the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC. June 18, 2020 In "News"