The Abiola family of Abeokuta in Ogun on Friday demanded for an official recognition of late chief M.K.O Abiola as an ex-president of Nigeria. The Head of the Family, Chief Olanrewaju Abiola, made the demand at their family house in Abeokuta. The late M.K.O Abiola was believed to have won the June 12, 1993 presidential elections. Abiola said the recognition had become necessary for Nigerian leaders to rule in peace. He commended Buhari for conferring a posthumous highest national honour of the Grand Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic (GCFR) on Late Abiola and recognising June 12 as Nigeria’s authentic Democracy Day. READ ALSO: JUNE 12: Yoruba, not northerners, destroyed Abiola’s chances to be President — Maradin Katsina He, however, urged the president to actualise the mandate that Nigerians gave to his late junior brother, Moshood, on June 12, 1993, by conferring an official status of an ex-president of the nation on him. Abiola also demanded that all the entitlements that should have accrued to his late brother from 1993 to date should be fully paid to the family. He called on Buhari to liase with the National Assembly to debate the issue and subsequently pass it as a law. “On June 12, last year when I spoke with the president, he said he has given him the honour, but we want it in black and white. “Let the members of the National Assembly debate it and pass it into law. “Moshood was the bread winner of the family and since his death, the family members have been suffering,” he said. (NAN) vanguardngr.com IRRESPECTIVE of whatever legal and political reservations being advanced, we are convinced that the Federal Government has done the right thing by officially recognising the late Chief Moshood Abiola as the winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election. June 14, 2018 In "Editorial" ABEOKUTA- Members of the immediate family of the acclaimed winner of the June 12, 1993 Presidential election, the late Chief Moshood Abiola, yesterday, insisted that the best way to immortalize their late bread winner who died in the cause of claiming his mandate is for him to be declared an… June 13, 2012 In "News" TWENTY years after the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential elections presumably won by late business tycoon, Chief M.K.O Abiola, the Head of Abiola family, Mubashiru, yesterday, exonerated former Military President, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida from the complicity that led to the death of Abiola in government’s custody. Rather,… June 13, 2013 In "Headlines"