Burundi’s newly elected president Evariste Ndayishimiye will be sworn in on Thursday, after the sudden death of his predecessor who left him an isolated nation in political and economic turmoil. Ndayishimiye was elected in May in a vote disputed by the opposition, and was meant to take office in August, however the inauguration was sped up after his predecessor Pierre Nkurunziza’s shock death. His swearing-in ceremony will take place at the Ingoma stadium in the administrative capital Gitega, with the public asked to arrive early to allow time for coronavirus measures such as hand-washing and temperature checks. Diplomats and representatives of international organisations have been invited, however Democratic Republic of Congo President Felix Tshisekedi is expected to be the only head of state attending, due to the ongoing pandemic. Nkurunziza, who ruled the east Africa nation for 15 often tumultuous years, was said by the government to have died of a heart attack last week. However the 55-year-old took ill less than two weeks after his wife had been flown to a Nairobi hospital for treatment for coronavirus, according to a medical document seen by AFP, and speculation is rife he may have caught the virus. A medical source told AFP he had suffered “respiratory distress” before dying. Compared to its neighbours which imposed lockdowns and curfews — with the exception of equally sceptical Tanzania — Burundi has taken few measures to combat the virus. The country last month expelled a team of World Health Organization experts who were supporting the country’s response to the epidemic. Nkurunziza, a devout evangelical who believed he was chosen by God to lead Burundi, leaves a “dark and sad legacy”, Carina Tertsakian of the Burundi Human Rights Initiative told AFP. His 2015 run for a third term in office sparked protests and a failed coup, with violence leaving at least 1,200 dead while some 400,000 fled the country. United Nations human rights investigators have said the period since 2015 has been marked by likely crimes against humanity committed by state forces, citing extrajudicial executions, arbitrary arrests, disappearances, torture and sexual violence. Ndayishimiye, 52, a former army general and Hutu rebel like his predecessor, had been handpicked by the powerful ruling CNDD-FDD party to run in a May 20 presidential election. He won the vote with 68.7 percent, and an opposition bid to have the results overturned due to alleged fraud was overturned just days before Nkurunziza’s death. Ndayishimiye is reputed to be more tolerant and open than his predecessor and is not a regime hardliner. Observers say the death of Nkurunziza — who was expected to continue to play a significant role — might give him more independence. However he will still have to please the powerful group of generals at the core of the ruling party, who anointed him to succeed Nkurunziza. After the news of Nkurunziza’s death Ndayishimiye vowed to “continue his high-quality work that he has done for our country”. The change in president also opens up the possibility of warmer ties with foreign donors, who cut Burundi off after the 2015 crisis. A source in the French presidency said the country would work with its European partners and “extend a hand to the new Burundian president”. “For the first time we will have a leader who is not just forging ahead regardless of the consequences, wrapped up in divine faith,” the source said. The government has yet to announce a date for Nkurunziza’s funeral. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Burundi's newly-elected president, Evariste Ndayishimiye, will be sworn in on Thursday, the foreign ministry announced, in a ceremony fast-tracked by the sudden death of the incumbent, Pierre Nkurunziza. Nkurunziza died on June 8 aged 55, of what authorities said was heart failure. His death came less than two weeks after… June 15, 2020 In "Foreign" Burundi's ruling party candidate Evariste Ndayishimiye was on Monday declared the winner of the country's presidential election, which the opposition has said was flawed. The national election commission, in results streamed live on Burundian media, announced that Ndayishimiye had won 68.72 percent of the vote, while opposition leader Agathon Rwasa… May 25, 2020 In "Foreign" Burundi’s should swear-in president-elect Evariste Ndayishimiye as the incumbent as soon as possible, the country’s Constitutional Court ruled today. Cabinet, led by the First Vice President, at an extraordinary session on Thursday, referred transition issues to the court seeking the interpretation of relevant laws. ALSO READ: Akwa Ibom govt. approves GBV… June 13, 2020 In "News"