Members of the National Association of Resident Doctors, NARD, will next week Monday commence a nationwide industrial action should the Federal Government fails to meet its demands. National President of the association, Dr. Aliyu Sokomba who disclosed this in an official letter with reference number NARD/SG/2019-2020/070620/246 said the ‘painful ‘action became necessary” following the inability of the government to meet its demands. According to him, “Consequent upon the 14 days ultimatum duly served the Federal Government for indefinite strike action, in accordance with the resolution of the Ordinary General Meeting of the Association on the 29th of May 2020, we hereby notify you that all resident doctors, medical officers below the rank of Principal Medical Officer (PMO) and House Officers across all the Federal and State hospitals in Nigeria, shall be embarking on a total and indefinite strike action effective 12:01 am on Monday, 15th June 2020. “It is important that you make alternative arrangements for the care of the patients as the strike shall be total and indefinite. No service of any kind, be it emergency, care at COVID-19 isolation and treatment centres shall be exempted. We sympathize with the patients and the Nigerian populace. “For purpose of clarity, the demands on which the ultimatum was predicated include the following; Provision of grossly inadequate appropriate Personal Protective Equipment for all healthcare workers, Immediate reversal of the illegal disengagement of all 26 resident doctors in Jos University Teaching Hospital and the payment of all salaries owed them, in keeping with provisions of the Medical Residency Training Act. “Universal Implementation of the Medical Residency Training Act in all federal and state hospitals and ensuring pay parity among doctors of the equal cadre.  Immediate implementation of the revised hazard allowance and payment of the COVID-19 inducement allowance as agreed with by the Federal Government and healthcare workers three months ago. “Provision of funding for Medical Residency Training in the 2021 Appropriation bill. Payment of all arrears owed our members in federal and states tertiary health institutions, arising from the consequential adjustment of the National minimum wage. “Stoppage and immediate refund of all illegal, unjust and callous cut in salaries of our members by Kaduna State and other state governments. vanguard The National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has given the Federal Government a 14-day ultimatum to prevail on the Lagos State Government to recall sacked doctors and implement earlier agreements or face an indefinite nationwide strike. May 29, 2012 In "News" The National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) was set to commence nationwide strike as from Monday midnight, its President, Dr Mohammed Askira, said in a statement issued on Monday in Abuja. June 20, 2016 In "News" The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) says it is directing all corps doctors nationwide to bridge service delivery gaps created by the strike of resident doctors. September 6, 2017 In "News"