South Korea’s presidential office on Monday accused former US national security advisor John Bolton of distorting facts and jeopardising future negotiations with his scathing account of Donald Trump’s North Korea summit strategy. Bolton’s forthcoming memoir “The Room Where it Happened” takes both Trump and South Korean President Moon Jae-in to task for their handling of a series of historic meetings with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un beginning in 2018. Chung Eui-yong, Moon’s security adviser — who first told Trump that Kim wanted to meet and appears repeatedly in the book — said it “does not convey accurate facts and a large chunk of it distorts facts a great deal”. He did not cite specifics. But he said that disclosing details about the bilateral nuclear negotiations “violates basic diplomatic principles and would seriously undermine interest in future talks” by all sides. The presidential Blue House issued a separate statement, saying: “It is inappropriate to distort facts with prejudice and bias.” In the book, Bolton says Trump was not prepared for his first summit with Kim in Singapore, but expected it to be “great theatre”. He also criticises Moon, saying the “whole diplomatic fandango was South Korea’s creation relating more to its ‘unification’ agenda than serious strategy on Kim’s part or ours”. “The South’s understanding of our terms to denuclearise North Korea bore no relationship to fundamental US national interests,” Bolton writes. He describes Moon’s view on one issue as “nonsense” and “schizophrenic.” Asked Monday about Bolton’s description of Moon as “schizophrenic”, a South Korean presidential official responded: “It is an issue Bolton has to judge for himself. I think he might be one”. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. President Moon Jae-in of South Korea said on Tuesday it would not be easy for reclusive North Korea to destroy its nuclear arsenal quickly, even if  it wanted to, given its weapons programmes were so developed. November 14, 2017 In "News" As efforts are being made to bring lasting peace to the Korean Peninsula, the White House has announced that President Trump will host the South Korean President Moon Jae-in, on May 22. May 5, 2018 In "News" Former US national security advisor John Bolton said Sunday he thinks North Korean leader Kim Jong Un "gets a huge laugh" over US counterpart Donald Trump's perception of their relationship. Bolton spoke to ABC News for his first interview ahead of the Tuesday release of his tell-all book, which contains… June 22, 2020 In "Foreign"