Nastura Ashir Shariff, the BOT chairman of Coalition of Northern Groups, CNG, and alleged mastermind of the protest in Katsina, has been detained. The CNG confirmed in a statement on Wednesday, that Sharif, ” is currently being detained at the Police Force HQ, Abuja.” Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, CNG Spokesperson said in the statement that Shariff was arrested Tuesday afternoon and moved to Abuja shortly after the peaceful protests in Katsina against the killings of helpless citizens by bandits. “After the protests, which was universally adjudged to very peaceful as reported on both electronic and versions of the international and national media, Shariff led the national excos of CNG to the Katsina Police Commissioner to show appreciation for the professional conduct of the police throughout the peaceful assembly.’ “After thanking him and handing him the petition for onward transmission to the Governor because he received the protesters at the Government House, the CP informed the delegation that the IG wanted to see Shariff in Abuja.” ” Shariff accepted to go see the IG and even cancelled prior appointments in Kano but the CP said that arrangements have been made to convey him to Abuja.” “He agreed to be conveyed by the police and other members of the CNG executives went with him in the same vehicle. On arrival late last night, he was made to make a statement which he did and was thereafter detained,” they said. However, the three other executives were asked to go and come back today, Wednesday for further processes for his release. ” They’ve been there since morning. The feedback we have been receiving from our men on ground, says Shariff is accused of insulting Femi Adesina, a presidential media aide and protests. “CNG is shocked that a government which is bound to observe the true tenets of democracy can go all out to breach a people’s constitutionally guaranteed civil right to publicly and peacefully call government to account for its handling of security and citizen safety.” “It is regrettable that Shariff is detained on an allegation of insulting Adesina without minding that Adesina was the first to insult and denigrate the person of a respected northern elder, Professor Anglo Abdullahi which provoked widespread outrage. “The protest, as record shows, was the most peaceful ever in recent times which was even confirmed by the Katsina police commissioner who received the protesters at the Government House.” “It is therefore really shocking that people who happen to be the major beneficiaries of public protests would refuse to tolerate peaceful protests by others even where those protests are to challenge wanton and unwarranted killings of innocent citizens. “Meanwhile, we urge supporters to remain calm while our team of lawyers look into the matter.” The coalition, however, called on the international community, global human right actors to note the situation. Vanguard Nigeria News The Coalition of Northern Groups,  CNG,  has said  it would commence protests against incessant killings in the north to demand urgent action  from the Federal Government. June 14, 2020 In "News" The insecurity in the north yesterday triggered massive protest in Katsina metropolis, as thousands of youths took to the streets against what they described as incessant killings in seven frontline local government areas of the state by bandits. June 17, 2020 In "News" AS mixed views continue to herald last Monday’s #RevolutionNow protests in some states of the country and security agents clampdown on the protesters, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, yesterday, said Nigerians have the right to protest but they must properly articulate their grievances. August 8, 2019 In "Headlines"