Nigerian Vice-President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, will on Thursday, present a post COVID-19 Economic Sustainability Plan to President Muhammadu Buhari. The all-inclusive plan will contain actions and strategies that will help mitigate the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on Nigeria’s economy. Osinbajo’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, made this known on Thursday. The SSA on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande wrote on Twitter: “Today, VP is leading members of the COVID-19 Economic Sustainability Committee to submit to President, the Sustainability Plan, detailing policy options and programmes designed to proactively stimulate the Nigerian economy, retain and create jobs, turning COVID-19 to opportunity.” Speaking on the economic impact of the pandemic, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who is also the leader of the COVID-19 Economic Sustainability Committee, said: “It is very clear that coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has presented us with an enormous economic challenge.” He, however, assured that the Economic Sustainability Plan, when assented by the President, will provide modalities and interventions that will fortify businesses in the country and enable them to thrive despite the challenge at hand. Vanguard News Nigeria. New sustainability plan almost ready Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is enlarging the pool of options open to Nigeria in achieving the Buhari Presidency plan to turn the current economic challenges to an opportunity for Nigerians, especially the "Common Man." Today, the VP has met with representatives of the International Monetary… April 21, 2020 In "News" The Economic Sustenance Committee (ESC) has held its third meeting, chaired by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, SAN. The Committee which was established by President Muhammadu Buhari continued on the responsibility bestowed on them to come up with a plan to turn the current challenges from COVID-19 pandemic to… April 16, 2020 In "News" Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is enlarging the pool of options open to Nigeria in achieving the Buhari Presidency plan to turn the current economic challenges to an opportunity for Nigerians, especially the "Common Man." Today, the VP has met with representatives of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank… April 21, 2020 In "News"