Leroy Sane is heading for the Manchester City exit door after rejecting a new deal, manager Pep Guardiola said on Friday. The Germany international has 12 months left on his contract and has been heavily linked with Bayern Munich, with the City boss acknowledging it is only a matter of time before Sane leaves. “Leroy said he does not want to extend the contract next season so it means he wants to leave and it is going to happen this summer or at the end of the contract,” Guardiola said on a videoconference with reporters on Friday. “The club told to me they offered two or three times to extend his contract, he rejected, so he wants to play in another club. “I think everybody knows if at the end of this season there is an agreement of both clubs, he is going to leave.” Winger Sane, 24, has won the Premier League title twice at City since joining from Schalke in 2016. However, he has not played for the first team since suffering a torn knee ligament in the Community Shield match against Liverpool in August. “When we make an offer to a player it’s because we want him,” Guardiola said at his pre-match press conference. “He has special quality. We want players who want to play with the club to achieve targets. He is a nice guy and I love him so much. I have nothing against — but he wants another adventure.” Guardiola said that David Silva and Claudio Bravo would stay at the club until the end of the extended season, having initially been due to leave at the end of June. City, second in the Premier League, face Burnley on Monday. VANGUARD Manchester City coach Pep Guardiola took a swipe Friday at Bayern Munich over their pursuit of Leroy Sane and said there had been no contact from them about the winger. July 19, 2019 In "News" Pep Guardiola urged Leroy Sane to decide if he wants to stay at Manchester City or go to Bayern Munich as the unsettled star scored twice in a 6-1 rout of Hong Kong's Kitchee. July 24, 2019 In "News" Coach Pep Guardiola warned Leroy Sane on Wednesday that he only wants to keep players at Manchester City who are happy at the club as Bayern Munich lurk for the exciting winger. July 17, 2019 In "Sports"