The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) has confirmed that two children were trapped and died in a collapsed building situated at 46, Gafari Balogun St., Ogudu in Lagos State, after Wednesday heavy downpour. Its Director-General, Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, told  Newsmen in Lagos that the LASEMA Response Team (LRT), said that his team brought out the remains of the victims within two hours of operations. Oke-Osanyintolu said that the LRT received a distress call at 12.40p.m of a collapsed building at the aforementioned location. “On arrival at the scene by agency responders, it was observed that a building collapsed as a result of a mud slide at the rear of the building caused by heavy rainfall. “ We were informed that two children, one male and one female, were trapped and immediately commenced a search and rescue operation. “Unfortunately, they were found dead and their remains were transported to the mortuary,” Oke-Osanyintolu said. He said that integrity test would be conducted on the remainder of the building which had now been cordoned off by the Lagos State Building Control Agency By Olasunkanmi Akoni Amid heavy rainfall on Wednesday, at least two yet to be identified teenagers, a male and a female, were reportedly recovered dead in a storey building which collapsed at number 46 Gafari Balogun Street, Ogudu area of Lagos State. According to report, emergency response team of the… June 17, 2020 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Tragedy struck in Lagos again, Friday, November 1st, when a two storey building, still under construction, suddenly collapsed at Glover Court, Ikoyi, Lagos. At press time, four out of the five trapped construction workers in the collapsed building were rescued, while the remaining worker was yet to… November 2, 2019 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Tragedy struck in Lagos again, Friday, November 1st, when a two-storey building, still under construction, suddenly collapsed at Glover Court, Ikoyi, Lagos.  At press time, four out of the five trapped construction workers in the collapsed building were rescued, while the remaining worker was yet to be… November 1, 2019 In "News"