Arsenal goalkeeper Bernd Leno’s injury is not as bad as first feared and he could be back in full training within four weeks, the club have confirmed. Leno suffered a serious-looking setback in Saturday’s 2-1 loss to Brighton and Hove Albion when he was fouled by Neal Maupay, who went on to score the winner. The Germany international was clearly in pain after his right knee appeared to buckle and there were concerns he may face a lengthy spell on the sidelines. However, Arsenal provided an update on his condition ahead of Thursday’s trip to Southampton. “Positive news after detailed assessments,” read a statement released on Tuesday. “Sustained moderate ligament sprain during Brighton & Hove (a) on Saturday. Aiming to return to full training in four to six weeks.” With Mikel Arteta’s side having now lost back-to-back matches since the return from the Premier League’s coronavirus-enforced shutdown, it represents a piece of much-needed good news for the Gunners. Updates were also given on a host of other players, with Granit Xhaka and Pablo Mari having been injured in the 3-0 loss at Manchester City. Xhaka is back in full training, but Mari is set for up to three months on the sidelines, with further assessments required. Fotmob Vanguard Arsenal goalkeeper Bernd Leno was stretchered off after suffering a potentially serious injury during the first half of his side's Premier League clash at Brighton on Saturday. Leno screamed in pain after sliding awkwardly when he came to collect the ball just inside his own penalty area. The German seemed… June 20, 2020 In "Sports" Mikel Arteta came out guns blazing after Arsenal succumbed to a miserable last minute defeat at the hands of Brighton. Following a mauling at the hands of Man City last Wednesday, hopes were high Arsenal could quickly bounce back. A superb Nicolas Pepe strike gave The Gunners the advantage, but… June 20, 2020 In "Sports" Brighton and Hove Albion goalkeeper Mat Ryan is set to donate around £15,000 to help the battle against the enormous bush fire in Australia. Ryan, who hails from Australia, pledged to donate AU$500 to Wires Wildlife Rescue for each save made during the latest round of Premier League action. The… January 13, 2020 In "Sports"