  This is the ability to do something that frightens one. Strength in the face of pain or grief. It is not the absence of fear but rather the ability to overcome fear when we need something bad enough. The most courageous of people still have their moments of fears. This Video gives an explicit insight into all you need to know about having courage which helps surmount life’s challenges Kinds of Courage For parents, it is not comparing your children with others, it is understanding peer pressure and standing firm against it in its destructive form. A Japanese proverb says “if you believe everything you better not read” These are being able or willing to grapple with difficult or confusing concepts and ask questions,  it is being willed to struggle to gain understanding and risk making mistakes. Sometimes what we learn challenges previously accepted ideas or contradict teachings and values or believe the system of family or cultural groups Importance: Courage is needed in the face of threat, to be able to stand and push back challenges, deal with life-threatening situations such as sickness, death, examination etc. Real courage requires wisdom!  Nonetheless, lowering your standards to go with the crowd should never pass for courage. How to show Courage: Leadership and Courage: Good leaders need the courage to make bold and unpopular decisions. Leadership takes courage, there is the trust courage, the courage of confidence in others, letting go of the need to control situation s or outcomes. Bible Characters that acted in Courage: Nehemiah He identified a problem to be solved. More than 100 years after Jerusalem fell to the Babylonians; the walls of the city lay in ruins, leaving it vulnerable to attacks. To Nehemiah, this was intolerable. He appealed to the king Artaxerxes of Persia and won his backing to return to the land of his ancestors to rebuild the walls. In 150 days, Nehemiah was able to accomplish his mission even in the face of strong opposition and discouragement. David : When we read the story of David killing Goliath, though he was courageous, the bible says that after Samuel anointed him with oil, “….the Spirit of the Lord came powerfully upon David” which establishes that there is an inner strength that propels us to do the extraordinary, it enables us to act courageously. Harriet Tubman: She did the unimaginable at a critical time. She helped hundreds of black slaves fleeing captivity in North America and Canada. She was driven by hardship, wasted youth and even punishments, this prompted her at the 28 to make an escape and then embark on a rescue mission, in 10 years, in spite of the price of 40,000dollars placed on her head, she helped 300 black slaves escaped using a complicated system, underground railroad. Dr Ameyo Stella Adadevoh: She was a Nigerian Physician who is credited with having curbed the widespread of  deadly Ebola virus in Nigeria in 2014. Her bold and courageous move, by placing the patient, Patrick Sawyer in quarantine despite the pressure from the Liberian government, she created an isolation area with a wooden barricade and without protective equipment. Dr Adadevoh was diagnosed with Ebola virus disease and later died on the 19th of August 2014. MKO Abiola He won the June 12 election in 1993 but was annulled. He stood up against the military juntas and challenged the annulment of the victory he was denied. Ken Saro-Wiwa Fought for what he believed and died for the same course. He was a writer, television producer and environmental activist. He won the award for exemplary courage as a member of the Ogoni people. The Ogoni land was targeted for crude oil extraction since 1950 but has suffered extreme environmental damage from years of indiscriminate petroleum waste dumping Saro Wiwa led the MOSOP in series of the non-violent campaign against the military government to challenge the environmental state of the Ogoni land. He was tried and killed by hanging in 1995. Being courageous in daily life: Share your courageous moments, do a short video or even a voice note, you can write stating some details of your experience. Let’s encourage someone out there, tell them it is possible!  By Ifure Ataifure "All problems, personal, national, or combat, become smaller if you don't dodge them, but confront them. Touch a thistle timidly, and it pricks you; grasp it boldly, and its spines crumble. Carry the battle to the enemy! Lay your ship alongside his!" — Fleet Admiral William "Bull"… June 21, 2019 In "Viewpoint" Bothered by the recurrent herdsmen killings in Benue state, the Northern Governors’ and the Progressive Governors’ Forum have pledged to assist the Benue state government to stop the killings in parts of state and also ensure the enthronement of lasting peace in the state. January 20, 2018 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni The Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, has said that now more than ever, Nigeria and its citizens desire unity, love and special courage to come out victorious against COVID-19. Obasa, made the remarks in his Easter goodwill message to Christians, even as the… April 12, 2020 In "News"