Dear Bunmi, My current boyfriend is my childhood sweetheart and we’ve been together for over six years. The problem is I’m not in love with him anymore. He doesn’t ring my bell like he used to. Mind you, I still like him as a friend but when he touches me, my skin crawls! He’s now talking about marriage and I don’t see me spending the rest of my life with him. How do I let him down nicely? Justina, by e-mail. Dear Justina, Lovers fall out of love all of the time, but you need to be absolutely sure you don’t want him any more. It’s unfair to play games – suggesting a split, and then making up again. Break the news sensitively. Take the blame yourself and leave your ex feeling he’s still worth something. One thing you should expect is to feel bad afterward. Even though it was you who made the break, you’ll feel shocked, upset and down as you cope with this new phase in your life. Don’t prolong the agony by feeling sorry for him because if you continue to sleep together, you will make it harder to get over each other. As you move on, ask yourself what you gained and what you learnt. Even the worst relationships can teach you something good about yourself and about life. As for being friends afterwards, only time will tell. I’m going through my second divorce from a man I married the native law and custom way. I have two daughters by my first husband and one by my second. I went straight from my second husband into another relationship. My current boyfriend is divorced and has three children. March 16, 2011 In "News" Six years ago, when I was compulsorily retired from my place of work where I held an executive position, I decided to learn a trade, information technology, to be precise. So at the age of 49, I found myself amongst a group of prospective business centre operators under the tutelage… January 26, 2011 In "News" I’ve been married to my wife for over six years now and we have two lovely children. My problem is her insatiable appetite for sex. My wife wants sex - and everyday. January 19, 2011 In "News"