Factional Chairman of the Edo State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Anselm Ojezua, Esq., has called for calm among party members and supporters following the disqualification of the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki by the Governorship Primary Screening Committee of the party, saying that the governor has performed credibly well and will be reelected for a second term. Ojezua, who spoke to journalists in Benin City after the announcement by the committee, said the result didn’t come as a surprise as the governor had alluded to the fact that he will not get justice from the screening exercise. He, however, appealed to the supporters of the party in the state to remain calm as the leadership of the party will meet tomorrow Friday 13th June 2020, to properly respond to the report of the committee that screened candidates for the June 22, 2020, APC Primary. Ojezua said, “I want to appeal to leaders and members of APC in Edo State to remain calm. The validity of the Screening Committee has not been established. “A proper response to the report is yet to come as the leadership of the party in the State will meet tomorrow and at the end of the meeting give the appropriate response”. Reacting to the governor’s chances of reelection following his decision not to appeal the screening result, the party chairman noted, “They didn’t say he will not contest the election but that he will not contest under the platform of the APC. “By tomorrow, we will meet and be in a position to make a proper statement on what the future holds for the party in Edo State” Vanguard  Fireworks ahead of the June 22 governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress, APC, continued yesterday, with the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki crying that he may not get justice from the Screening Committee June 11, 2020 In "Politics" The Chairman of the Edo State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Anselm Ojezua has said the inauguration of a 41-man member mobilization committee to swell the membership of the party ahead of the 2020 governorship election in the state, would pull in high-value politicians in an organised, systemic… January 4, 2020 In "News" Signals emanating from supporters of the Edo State chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Prince Anselm Ojezua and supporters of the National Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie Oyegun are not soothing as we approach the crucial September 10 governorship poll. July 14, 2016 In "Viewpoint"