Lagos State National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, Chairman, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly known as “MC-Oluomo”, has presented locally-fabricated face masks to the leadership of Lagos State Chapter of Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, towards combating COVID-19 in the state. Akinsanya presented the items to Lagos Council Chairman of NUJ, Dr. Quasim Akinreti, when the latter, on Monday, led a delegation on a familiarisation visit to NURTW Secretariat in Agege. The face masks, according to the NURTW boss, were part of the Union’s support for journalists as one of the vulnerable groups in the frontline, reporting and educating the COVID-19 situation. According to him, “the media is one of the cardinal groups in winning the battle against COVID-19 pandemic. They have been informing and educating us on how to prevent contracting the virus as well as halt its spread. “That is why I deemed it fit to lend my support to what you are doing; for your dedication, steadfastness, among others. You are doing a great job that must be commended and encouraged. You have kept the public abreast of activities of government in the fight against the virus. “I, hereby, express my readiness to partner with the media in impacting positively on the society at large. Do not hesitate to call on me whenever the need arises.” MC-Oluomo used the occasion to urge journalists to adhere strictly to the precautionary measures aimed at preventing them from contracting the virus, such as regular handwashing with soap and the use of face masks as well as alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Receiving the face masks on behalf of Lagos NUJ, Akinreti applauded the leadership of Akinsanya in the state so far and the gesture, even at a very short notice. Akinreti said the face masks would go a long way in ensuring the safety of journalists as they go about their duties. The NUJ boss called on other well-meaning individuals, groups and organisations to emulate MC- Oluomo’s gesture by supporting journalists in the course of their duties. Vanguard As Lagos NURTW takes campaign to market, motor parks Following the deadly global coronavirus pandemic, the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, WAPA, Mrs. Cecilia Bolaji Dada has called on all women especially in Lagos to keep their homes clean. She also urged all mothers of their various homes… March 28, 2020 In "Woman" Hands over suspects to the police,  sues for peace By Olasunkanmi Akoni The Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, Lagos Branch, Alhaji Musliu Akinsanya has urged members on Lagos Island on the need to embrace peace at all-time in the interest of the state. The plea… January 13, 2020 In "News" The Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Lagos State, Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly called MC Oluomo, has said he is talking to the Lagos State Government to review the ban and restriction on motorcycle and tricycle riders in the state. This was disclosed to newsmen on Monday through… February 4, 2020 In "News"