The Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu Campaign Organisation said Obaseki and all those who were at the defection meeting should be quarantined because they flouted the physical distancing regulation established by the state governor. A statement by the Director of Media and Communication of POI Campaign Organisation, John Mayaki, also noted that Obaseki is now enjoying exactly what he tried to frustrate Ize-Iyamu of when he joined the APC. He said: “While we note interestingly that this is the same right the Governor, in his usual autocracy and abuse of power, tried to deny Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu last year when he returned to the All Progressives Congress through the sponsorship of physical and media attacks, and the institution of baseless court cases, we, as democrats and staunch believers in the rule of law, unlike Godwin Obaseki, hold nothing against it. “However, we observed with great concern the dangerous and reckless actions of the Governor and his supporters at the venue of his defection. Without any observance of the social distancing rules, or the use of face masks to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Godwin Obaseki assembled hundreds of Edo youths that his administration failed to gainfully engage following his failure to create 200,000 jobs as promised and assigned them the demeaning task of singing his praises at great risk to their health during a pandemic. “Apart from violating the guidelines of the Presidential Task-Force on COVID-19 on social gathering, Mr. Godwin Obaseki also openly disregarded the stipulations of his ill-conceived gazette which, among other things, held that no gathering of more than 20 persons shall take place in a single location. “Consequently, to protect the people of the State and ensure that the work of the Federal Government in curbing the spread of the viral disease is not undone by the irresponsibility of a vain Governor who prioritizes politics over public health and human lives, we call on the Nigeria Police Force and other relevant security agencies to aid the Nigeria Center for Disease Control in the commencement of an immediate identification, tracing, and arrest of everyone present at the event for immediate quarantine at nearby isolation centers. Vanguard Nigeria News PDP candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, yesterday said he has been vindicated on his claim about the high debt profile of the state by the Debt Management Office, DMO. In that respect, the candidate has tasked the outgoing governor to explain the N1.9 trillion allegedly received in the last 8 years. September 23, 2016 In "Edo election 2016" The Director of Communication and Media, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu Campaign Organisation, Prince John Mayaki has described the calling by some stakeholders for President Muhammadu Buhari's intervention in the conduct of party primary as a show of shame. May 31, 2020 In "News" The Director of Communication and Media, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu Campaign Organization, Prince John Mayaki has reiterated his devotion to oust the incumbent Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki over claims of  disregard for the rule of law, and unwarranted attacks on voices of dissent in the state. May 18, 2020 In "News"