In a swift reaction, Chairman of the All Progressive Congress, APC in Etsako Ward 10, Mr. Oshawo Stephen, has dismissed claims that the suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as a member of the party has been lifted. Stephen and some executives of the Ward had in December last year reportedly suspended Oshiomhole, but majority of his executive members have now dissociated themselves from that action. In a statement on Saturday night, Stephen said the ward executives who were elected into office in 2018 remain intact and have not been displaced by anybody, describing the claims of the lifting of the suspension as a charade. “The suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole by the ward executives remains valid. The statements to the contrary in the media are false and should be disregarded. We stand by our decision and have no reservation on the action as it is in the best interest of the party. “The ward executives, as well as our counterparts at the Etsako West Local Government level, stand by the suspension of Comrade Oshiomhole for his divisive role in the crisis rocking the APC in Edo State.” The statement added that the Chairman of APC in Etsako West LGA, Ezolomhe Rabiat, also affirmed that the LGA executives are still members of the party in the state and stand by the suspension of Comrade Oshiomhole. Vanguard Nigeria News The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Etsako Ward 10, Mr Oshawo Stephen, has dismissed claims that the suspension of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as a member of the party has been lifted, insisting that the ward executives stand by their suspension of the erstwhile National Chairman of the… June 20, 2020 In "Politics" .Ward Chairman kicks, says he remains suspended .As Rivers APC sends replacement for Giadom By Omeiza Ajayi ABUJA: Seventeen out of the 27 members of the executives of the APC in Ward 10, Etsako West local government of Edo state lifted the suspension slammed on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. This was as… June 20, 2020 In "Politics" Uphold Nat'l chair's suspension The leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s Ward 10 in Etsako West Local Government Area (LGA) and the party executives in the LGA have said they are still members of the Edo State chapter of the APC. Addressing journalists after a… June 20, 2020 In "News"