FOLLOWING the disqualification of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State from contesting in the forthcoming primary election in the state on the platform of his party, the All Progressives Congress, APC, the Action Democratic Party (ADP) said, weekend, that it was ready to receive and accept him into its fold. According to ADP, it was prepared to receive him with open arms, if the governor takes the decision of dumping the APC for another party. Recall that the APC screening committee had on Friday disqualified Governor Obaseki from contesting the June 22 governorship primaries of the party over certificates irregularities. The National Publicity Secretary of the ADP, Mr Adelaja Adeoye who was reacting to the disqualification of Obaseki said that the ADP was operating an open-door policy and that the party would gladly admit Obaseki and accord him every respect as a sitting governor. Adeoye who noted that the governor would have to follow the party’s rules and abide by its principles should he decide to join the party to contest on its ticket, said, “Yes, if Obaseki decides to join ADP today, the party will welcome him with open arms. The party runs an open-door policy. So we will gladly receive him. “He is the sitting governor so we may give him some waivers and will accord him all the respect as the occupier of the number one office in the state. “However, we will expect the governor to follow laid- down rules and abide by the principles of the party should he decide to join us to seek our ticket. “We will also expect him to slug it out with governorship aspirants in the party to get the ticket. He will definitely enjoy some privileges as a sitting governor. We will accord him all the respect.” According to the ADP spokesperson, the ADP has not conducted its governorship primaries and that the window of opportunity was there for Obaseki to join and seek the party’s ticket, adding that the party would adopt the indirect mode of primaries for its governorship tussle. On his view on the disqualification of Obaseki by the APC, Adeoye who noted that what was playing out was a clear-power play in the ruling party said the same Obaseki that was the bride of the party four years ago was being seen as not qualified for re-election by the APC, adding, “And, the aspirant they seem to favour was the same person they said destroyed the state some years ago.” Adeoye said that the PDP and APC were over-rated in Edo, pointing out that ADP had a formidable structure and support to win the governorship election. VANGUARD *Go to Appeal Committee, says APC official By Dapo Akinrefon Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has said he will not appeal his disqualification from All Progressives Congress, APC, primaries, an act he described as “Oshiomhole’s rascality.” However, while reacting to Obaseki's disqualification, a party official told Vanguard that the… June 12, 2020 In "News" The disqualification of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State from the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary has set the stage for unprecedented political gesticulations in the state with the moniker Heartbeat of the nation. June 13, 2020 In "News" A group, N’Edo Gheria, based in Benin, Edo State, and a palace chief, Dr. Godwin Ekhorutomwen, have condemned media reports credited to a group, Otu Odolevbo – Osioba, calling for a ban on Edo State Deputy Governor, Dr. Pius Odubu and Mr. Godwin Obaseki, from contesting the All Progressives Congress,… May 18, 2016 In "News"