Concerned youths in Delta State under the auspices of Progressive Delta Youths (PDY) has challenged the Interim Management Committee, IMC, of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, to make public the evidence of corruption linking members of the National Assembly to any form of fraud in the Commission. The group described NDDC’s defense as schemes to frustrate their expected appearance before the National Assembly to clear themselves of several allegations of corruption leveled against them. Reacting to the defense presented by the NDDC team to avoid appearing before the investigative probe panel of the National Assembly; the group’s Coordinator, Comrade Komeh Nathaniel in a statement described the IMC as the real enemies of the Niger Delta people. In his words: “There have been several corruption allegations leveled against the IMC members; yet they have chosen to frustrate their appearance before the investigative probe panel of the National Assembly rather than to toe the noble path of clearing their names. “A mere invitation to appear before an investigative probe panel for few days should have even been an opportunity for these people to prove their innocence if they do not have anything to hide. “We challenge these people to immediately expose and report to the appropriate anti-corruption agencies any member of the National Assembly they claimed to have collected money for contracts that were never executed. Otherwise, these people should bury their heads in shame for making allegations they can’t substantiate”. Vanguard Reacting to the letter written by the former Federal Commissioner for Information, Chief Edwin Clark, to the National Assembly, requesting for a holistic probe into the series of allegations raised by the Management of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, against the Federal lawmakers, group known as Niger Delta Peoples… June 3, 2020 In "News" Group known as Niger Delta Accountability and Development Congress, Wednesday, condemned the statement made against the National Assembly by the Interim Management Committee (IMC), wherein it accused NASS of inserting over 500 projects into the 2019 budget of the agency and also arm twisting the IMC from carrying out forensic… May 28, 2020 In "News" By Henry Umoru - Abuja The Senate has taken a swipe at the Executive Director, Projects of the Interim Management Committee, IMC of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Dr Cairo Ojougboh, warning that the National Assembly will not succumb to cheap blackmail from him or from any other quarters.… May 31, 2020 In "News"