Following the death of its former military commander, Qasem Soleimani, Iranian government, Monday issued warrant of arrest against the President of United State, Donald Trump and other suspects. Iran through Tehran prosecutor, Ali Alqasimehr, opined that Trump, along with more than 30 others, accused of involving in the January 3 attack that killed General Qassem Soleimani, will face murder and terrorism charges. Recall that the US military killed Soleimani in an air strike outside Baghdad international airport. His death however, sparked protests around the world. Miffed with Soleimani’s death, Iranian Revolutionary Guards vowed to attack Israel and other United States allies in revenge of US action. In his respond, Trump warned Tehran that the U.S. will target 52 Iranian sites if Iran attacks Americans. His words, “Let this serve as a WARNING that if Iran strikes any Americans, or American assets, we have targeted 52 Iranian sites (representing the 52 American hostages taken by Iran many years ago),” Trump tweeted Saturday. However, finding it difficult to let go, Iran issued an arrest warrant and asked Interpol to help in detaining US President Donald Trump and dozens of others it believes carried out the drone strike that killed a top Iranian general in Baghdad. Iran according to Aljazeera, said she would pursue Trump’s prosecution even after his presidency ends. Details later: Vanguard Mourners on Monday packed the streets of the Iranian capital Tehran for the funeral of the slain Iranian military commander, Qasem Soleimani. Soleimani was killed in a United States drone strike in Iraq on Friday on the orders of President Donald Trump. Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, led prayers and… January 6, 2020 In "News" A tide of mourners wept and beat their chests in the Iranian city of Ahvaz Sunday, paying homage to top general Qasem Soleimani, after he was killed in a US strike in Baghdad. "Death to America," they chanted at a mass gathering in the southwestern city, where Soleimani's remains arrived… January 5, 2020 In "News" Tens of thousands of Iranians thronged the streets of Tehran on Monday for the funeral of Quds Force commander Qassem Soleimani who was killed in a U.S. airstrike last week and his daughter said his death would bring a “dark day” for the United States. “Crazy Trump, don’t think that… January 6, 2020 In "Foreign"