The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission, NIPC, has denied Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc, Friesland Campina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, producers of Peak Milk brand and Kuber Development Limited, application for tax relief under the  Industrial Development Income Tax Relief Act (IDITRA). The NIPC disclosed this in its Pioneer Status Incentive Application report for the first quarter 2020 (Q1’20). The report showed that eight other companies out of18 new applications received during the period were granted approval-in-principle, AIP, for three years each. The companies are Honeywell Flour Mills Plc, Main Data Nigeria Limited, Apple & Pears Nigeria Limited, Tranos Contracting Limited, Elvis Hotels Nigeria Limited, Medlog Nigeria Limited, Kalambina Cement Company Limited and Wells Hosa Greenhouse Farms Limited. The NIPC explained in the report that Flour Mills of Nigeria was denied approval because the activity for which it sought tax relief (flour milling/ project expansion) is not eligible under  IDITRA, while the activities of WAMCO and Kuber were not covered under the pioneer status incentive Act. The report further showed that the eight companies that were granted AIP made a total investment of N151.916 billion, employed    1,460 staff and are in various sectors including agriculture, construction, administrative service, information & communication, and manufacturing. One company – Obu Cement Nigeria Limited- was granted extension for two years for the manufacture of cement, lime and plaster. The company, according to the report, had a total investment of N88.7 billion, while it has staff strength of    573. The report further revealed that one company – Fujian Stone Company Limited – was granted Pioneer Certificate with confirmed production date for cutting, shaping and polishing of stone for construction. While the company invested N 776.64 million, but its staff strength was not listed in the report. As at 31 March 2020, 39 companies were still enjoying PSI, no application was deemed abandoned, 125 applications were still pending, and no PSI certificate was cancelled. MANUFACTURERS Association of Nigeria (MAN) has disclosed that investments in backward integration projects have boosted local content by 53.17 per cent. Investigation by Vanguard showed that Nigerian Breweries Plc, has been procuring 99 per cent of its packaging materials from local suppliers. The company also procured 60 per cent of… July 11, 2017 In "Business" The Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, has given its approval-in-principle to the proposed business combination involving Flour Mills and Nigerian Bag Manufacturing Company Plc (Bagco) and its subsidiaries - Northern Bag Manufacturing Company Limited and Bagco Morpack Nigeria Limited. November 22, 2012 In "Business" Flour Mills Plc has announced its intention to merge its business with Niger Mills limited. January 27, 2013 In "Finance"