Popular Ghanaian actress, Juliet Ibrahim has sounded a note of warning to people who refer to her as “half-caste,” asking them to accept her for who she is and not her skin colour. Posting on her official Instagram page, the beautiful actress of mixed race posted: “I had a random conversation the other day with someone and it was appalling when he mentioned passively to me that he doesn’t see me as a black woman! He argued, you are not black enough. Your skin isn’t dark enough, your hair not kinky enough. And thus my siblings and I do not count you as black. Now, this is exactly what we are fighting to correct among ourselves and the world at large. I am a black woman! When I’m abroad among the whites, I am classified and recognized as a black woman. However, right among us Africans, I’ll be referred to as a half-caste. This is the most derogatory term to describe a person of mixed race or mixed ethnicity.   I had a random conversation the other day with someone and it was appalling when he mentioned passively to me that he doesn’t see me as a #Blackwoman ! He argued, you are not “black enough” your skin isn’t dark enough, your hair not kinky enough. And thus my siblings and I do not “count” as Black. Now this is Exactly, what we are fighting to correct amongst ourselves and the world at large. I am a black woman! When I’m abroad amongst the whites, I am classified and recognized as a black woman, however, right amongst us Africans I’ll be referred to as a Half-Caste! This is the most derogatory term to describe a person of mixed race or mixed ethnicity. We are referred to as mixed race or multi-racial! Mixed race people are no less black than their dark-skinned counterparts. So, let’s all say NO to RACISM, TRIBALISM, COLORISM and SEGREGATION. Let’s teach and train our children to grow up and accept people for who they are and not by the color of their skin. A post shared by  Juliet Ibrahim (@julietibrahim) on Jun 9, 2020 at 9:05am PDT We are referred to as mixed-race or multi-racial. Mixed race people are no less black than their dark-skinned counterparts. So, let’s all say NO to RACISM, TRIBALISM, COLORISM and SEGREGATION. Let’s teach and train our children to grow up and accept people for who they are and not by the colour of their skin.” After her debut in 2005, Juliet Ibrahim, who is 33 years of age, has acted in several movies and is one of the most popular actresses in Africa. VANGUARD Ghanaian broadcaster, Akuko Perming has incurred the wrath of pretty actress, Juliet Ibrahim for advising her to reconcile with her ex-husband, Kwadwo Safo Jnr., instead of waiting for the man of her dreams. August 21, 2019 In "Entertainment" Iceberg Slim, born Olusegun Olowokere is a US-born and bred Nigerian rapper who has collaborated with the top names in both Nigerian and the US music scene. He was recently courted by the media in both Nigeria and Ghana when the delectable Ghanaian actress, Juliet Ibrahim, revealed that it is… September 16, 2017 In "Entertainment" After one year of their breakup, popular Ghanaian actress, Juliet Ibrahim’s ex-boyfriend, Iceberg Slim, took to his Instagram page to issue a public apology to her, saying he has failed the “screen goddess”. August 16, 2019 In "Entertainment"