The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Sunday, disclaimed the activities of iBSmartify Nigeria, while it warned Nigerians to desist from patronizing the firm or any of its products. In a statement in Abuja, Acting Director General of SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, disclosed that neither iBSmartify and its subsidiary, nor the illegal products they offer, are registered or regulated by the Commission. She, therefore, warned the general public that any person dealing with the said entity and others in the same business in any manner, whatsoever, does so at his/her own risk. She said, “The attention of the Commission has been drawn to the activities of iBSmartify Nigeria, the promoter of a Blockchain known as iBledger (iBcashcryptocurrency) and InksNation. “The general public is hereby advised that neither the promoters of iBSmartify Nigeria nor the illegal products they offer are registered or regulated by the Commission.” SEC recently raised the alarm over the proliferation of the operation of unlawful/unlicensed investment schemes, with promises of huge, but unjustifiable returns on investment and has warned Nigerians against patronising them. It had stated that: “These activities are perpetrated by suspected promoters of Ponzi and other fraudulent schemes under the following identities: Loom Nigeria Money, Box Value Trading Company Ltd, Now-Now Alert, Flip Cash Investment, Result Investment Nigeria Limited, Helping Hand and Investment and No Failure Development and Empowerment Nig. Ltd. “Others are “MBA Forex and Investment Ltd, Federate Investors Trading Company, Jamalife Helpers Global Ltd, Flexus Global Solutions and Investment Ltd, United Capital Investment Company Limited.” “Members of the public are to note that by virtue of the provisions of Section 38(1) of the Investments and Securities Act (ISA) 2007, only persons registered with the Commission can engage in capital market activities, thus making the actions of these entities listed above unlawful. “Consequently, the general public is hereby advised to refrain from investing in any scheme of the entities listed above, and WARNS that any person who invests in an unlicensed/unlawful scheme does so at his own peril.” Uduk had stated that such outfits were not registered to carry out fund management functions of any sort, stressing that those who stubbornly patronize them end up burning their fingers. According to her, the capital market has been properly positioned to attract Nigerians and provide benefits to Nigerians who invest therein. She added that SEC has sustained its investor education programme to assist people to understand whatever issues they have around the capital market. “But besides that, there are new products coming up every day in the Nigerian capital market. We have a lot of ethical funds, one of the safest areas to invest in is in Mutual Funds, Collective Investments Schemes and we encourage Nigerians to be part of these and others.” The Acting SEC chief executive said the commission was presently undertaking various initiatives to make the capital market more user-friendly such that people can participate in it with greater ease, comfort and convenience. She added: “There is the added and all-important purpose of ensuring that the gains of your participation, be these dividends, proceeds from share sales/transfers, etc. accrue to you seamlessly, without sweat and in the shortest time possible. “The purpose is also to ensure that you do not fall victim to the antics of fraudsters who purport to be able to double any amount of money you make available to them as investment value.” Vanguard The Securities and Exchange Commission, (SEC) has warned Nigerians against the activities of iBSmartify Nigeria, saying that neither the entity nor the illegal products they offer are registered or regulated by the commission. June 28, 2020 In "News" Investors in Onitsha, Anambra State, have continued to lament their ordeal with wonder banks in which millions of naira was illegally collected from them under the pretence of investing the money in private placement. September 10, 2012 In "Finance" The Securities and Exchange Commission has warned members the public against patronizing illegal capital market operators. The Commissioned averred that investors should always consult the list of registered capital market operators on its website to ascertain their authenticity of any operators before entrusting their hard – earned money to such… December 24, 2013 In "Investors Forum"