The Edo State Government has announced the recovery and discharge of 50 more coronavirus (COVID-19) patients who have now tested negative for the virus and cleared to reunite with the society, following their treatment at the state’s isolation facilities. The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, who disclosed this in a statement, said the death toll in the state has risen to 31, with the elderly accounting for a large number of the fatalities. The governor, however, urged residents to comply with all safety and precautionary guidelines against the spread of the virus in order to protect the aged population, which accounts for only five per cent of the state’s total population. Obaseki said, “We have discharged 50 COVID-19 patients from our isolation centres in the state. A total of 197 people have recovered so far. However, the death toll has risen to 31, with the elderly making up a large number of the fatalities. Please, keep safe and protect the elderly.” Meanwhile, Commissioner for Health, Dr Patrick Okundia, said the state has recorded a total of 784 confirmed cases, 5555 suspected cases and exited 2052 others, including 1706 line-listed contacts and 346 persons-of-interest (POI) who have completed the compulsory 14-day follow-up and tested negative. Okundia, who reassured that the government will not relent in its efforts at containing the pandemic and protecting Edo people, noted, “As we continue to record successes in the management of COVID-19 in Edo state, the government urges all residents to comply with safety measures to curtail the spread of the virus and protect the state’s aged population” The commissioner added, “Stay at home and observe all precautionary measures against the spread of the infectious disease, including regular handwashing with soap under running water and the use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Cover your mouth and nose properly when sneezing and/or coughing. “Two toll-free lines for COVID-19 response have been introduced by Edo State Government to strengthen the initial lines from the State Ministry of Health and the World Health Organisation (WHO) distributed at the onset of the outbreak. If you have any COVID-19 symptoms, please 08001235111 or 08002200110 for assistance.” Vanguard As govt reiterates call to protect the elderly With the number of coronavirus (COVID-19) related deaths in Edo State climbing to 31, the government has reiterated the need for residents to comply with all health and safety precautions to check the spread of the virus in order to protect the… June 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Govt insists on social distancing, adherence to guidelines, others The Edo State Government has announced two new deaths resulting from coronavirus (COVID-19) complications and the discharge of 16 more patients, who have tested negative to the virus and cleared from the state’s isolation centres. The state also recorded 28 new… June 13, 2020 In "News" The Edo State Government has announced the recovery and discharge of 13 more coronavirus (COVID-19) patients, who have tested negative for the virus and cleared from the state’s isolation facilities. The state also recorded 14 new confirmed cases and five COVID-19 related deaths at the Stella Obasanjo Hospital Isolation Centre… June 8, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"