Anthony Joshua and Tyson Fury have agreed in principle to meet in two blockbuster fights, according to Joshua’s promoter Eddie Hearn. Hearn has been negotiating with Fury’s camp for several weeks and he said the terms were in place for the British world heavyweight champions to go head to head. No contracts have been signed yet, but Hearn expects the British professional boxer with Nigerian parentage, Joshua, to face Fury to determine the undisputed king of the heavyweight scene in 2021. “We’re making great progress. There is still a lot to overcome. We are looking at venues and dates,” Hearn told Sky Sports on Wednesday. “We’re in a good place,” he added. “It’s fair to say that, in principle, both guys have agreed to that fight. Two fights. “(There’s) a lot to overcome in the meantime. We’re moving in the right direction. I’m confident that both guys have given their blessings for the fight to go ahead.” Hearn said the first bout could happen in the summer of 2021. Joshua, WBA, IBF, and WBO belt-holder, is due to fight Bulgarian Kubrat Pulev next, while Fury, a WBC champion, has a rematch due with American Deontay Wilder. Joshua, 30, is still on course to face Pulev despite injuring his knee during a recent training run. He was seen with a knee brace and crutches during a Black Lives Matter protest at the weekend. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Britain's Anthony Joshua believes his long-awaited clash with fellow world heavyweight champion Deontay Wilder will take place as it would be "silly not to". September 23, 2018 In "Sports" Anthony Joshua's promoter Eddie Hearn wants a blockbuster all-British heavyweight unification fight with Tyson Fury this year after Fury battered Deontay Wilder in Las Vegas to become a two-time world champion. Fury brought Wilder's five-year reign as WBC heavyweight champion to a halt in seven rounds in their rematch on… February 23, 2020 In "Sports" But already has two mandatories By Tony Ubani Anthony Joshua smashed his way back into heavyweight supremacy after he gained revenge against Andy Ruiz Jr. The 6ft 6in Londoner made the 3,800 trip to Saudi Arabia on a mission to snatch back the unified belts Ruiz claimed in a historic… December 8, 2019 In "Sports"