A Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and leader in Bowen Ward, Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State, Amb. Toyin Agbolayah has commended the member representing Warri Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives, Hon. Thomas Ereyitomi for quality representation in the Green Chamber. Agbolayah gave the commendation in an interview with journalists yesterday in Warri. According to him, respect, value, and development have restored to Warri Federal Constituency as a result of quality representation. “I join other Warri federal constituents to celebrate Chief Ereyitomi as he marks the first anniversary at the National Assembly representing Warri federal constituency”. He described the lawmaker as a man of vision, courage and a philanthropist who has focused deeply on attracting development, quality and increase presence and participation at the floor of the Assembly . He appreciated the lawmaker for calling on the House of Representatives to direct NNPC to reinstate the sacked casual workers and convert them to staff as well as the provision of 9 million naira to the Three Warri LGAs during the COVID 19 lockdown to cushion the effect. “The payment of enrollment fees for over 200 indigenes and non-indigenes students who are writing their Senior School Certificate Examination SSCE and NECO by the lawmaker should be emulated by other political office holders”. He added. A Chieftain of Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) in Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State, Ambassador Toyin Agbolaya has commended the lawmaker representing Warri Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives Hon. Thomas Ereyitomi for establishing a Constituency Office, noting that the Constituency Office will boost and encourage quality… May 20, 2020 In "News" A Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, chieftain in Delta State and House of Representatives aspirant, Chief Thomas Ereyitomi, has promised to give the people of Warri federal constituency quality representation and ensure peace and security in Warri at the lower chamber if given the opportunity to serve. April 4, 2018 In "News" WARRI-  Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, House of Representatives candidate for Warri North Federal Constituency, Delta State, Chief Thomas Ereyitomi and Chairman, Warri North Local Government Area, Mr Aduge Okorodudu,  have called on Deltans to guarantee fairness in 2019 by re-electing Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. February 7, 2019 In "News"