President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed sadness over the death of the Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, South Africa chapter, Dr Taiye Abe. He was 65. Buhari, in a statement on Wednesday, by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, on the death of the party chairman in the diaspora, described the late Dr Abe’s love for the nation as second to none. He said he had an unmistakable love for Nigeria and a deep commitment to the ideals of the party. Buhari, who expressed sincere sympathy with the family, friends, and colleagues of the deceased APC Chairman, urged them to take heart, saying, “God will comfort you at this time of sorrow.” While speaking on his encounter during his (Dr Taiye Abe) lifetime, Buhari narrated how the late party chairman looked forward to the new Nigeria being called for by the citizens. “Dr Abe looked forward to a Nigeria that would take its rightful place among the comity of nations, and passionately believed in a resurgent country we could all be proud of”, he said. Buhari, therefore, called on party members in South Africa to keep up the vision and mission of Taiye Abe as he had been a wonderful ambassador and true representative of the nation and the party The president further assured Nigerians that the country would keep working towards achieving a better and well-deserving Nigeria. “We will not relent in working towards that goal,” Buhari said. Vanguard News Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari, Wednesday received the news of the death of the Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in South Africa, Dr Taiye Olusola Abe, aged 65. June 17, 2020 In "News" PORT HAR-COURT—A governorship aspirant on the platform of All Progressives Congress, APC, in Rivers State, Senator Magnus Abe, has urged the new chairman of the party, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, to help save the party from the act of injustice and disobedience to court rulings. June 27, 2018 In "News" President Goodluck Jonathan yesterday blasted All Progressives Congress, APC presidential aspirant, Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd) for twisting facts and figures to project his 2015 presidential ambition, saying that all that the general promised to do were being done by his administration. October 17, 2014 In "News"