FBNQuest Asset Management, a subsidiary of FBN Holdings recently launched the FBN Halal Fund, to provide investors with investment options that improve financial inclusion and align with ethical beliefs. The merchant bank explained in a statement that FBN Halal Fund is an open-ended mutual fund regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and it is designed to meet the needs of investors seeking long-term income generation, as it offers an opportunity for exposure to a broad range of fixed income Shariáh-compliant investments. The FBN Halal Fund is an open-ended Fund, which offers a key benefit of providing flexibility and liquidity for investors with ease of entry and exit. Returns from the Fund will be distributed to unit-holders semi-annually. In order to provide investors with confidence regarding strict adherence to Shariáh principles, the FBN Halal Fund will adopt a best practice approach with its governance structure through a Shariáh Advisory Council of Experts, an Investment Committee, a Custodian, and a Trustee. Commenting on the product launch, Ike Onyia, the Managing Director of FBNQuest Asset Management stated that “The FBN Halal Fund will be actively managed under Islamic finance principles, a respected Shariáh advisory council of experts and our seasoned portfolio managers who are guided by valuable experience”. “The Fund was introduced based on the need to create value-driven connections with our clients. Being a member of one of the strongest and most dependable financial groups in Africa, our goal is to constantly provide a wide range of solutions to support the evolving needs of our partners, and the opportunities for diversification through this Fund further affirms our client-centric approach to service delivery.” he added. Vanguard FBN Capital Limited is leveraging on the yuletide season which is marked with exchange of gifts to offer a bouquet of investment opportunities to workers and other form of investors. December 30, 2012 In "Finance" In its resolve to bolster wealth creation through specialized products, FBN Capital, the Investment and Asset Management business of the FirstBank Group has launched two funds - the FBN Money Market Fund and FBN Fixed Income Fund. June 24, 2012 In "Finance" Mr. Michael Oyebola, is the Managing Director and Head of FBN Capital Asset. He is also the President of the Fund Managers’ Association of Nigeria (FMAN). January 6, 2014 In "Finance"