Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has returned to the national secretariat of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, to be screened to participate in the June 22 governorship primary election of the party. Obaseki, who was earlier at the secretariat at about 1p.m., had left after he could not be screened at that time. He, however, returned to the secretariat at exactly 7.59p.m. for the screening, accompanied by his associates, including Senator Domingo Obende. He had, minutes before then, raised the alarm about alleged attempts by the committee not to screen him. Recall that in a statement earlier, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, had said the governor arrived at the National Secretariat of the party early for screening, but that the committee was not ready. According to him, “the governor arrived early but the screening committee was not ready. He was given the option to either wait for one hour or, if he had an appointment to keep, he could go and call them to know if they were ready. “The governor, who had a Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) meeting, went for the meeting and called when he was done. “But the members of the screening committee did not pick the governor’s call to their phones.” Vanguard By Omeiza Ajayi Ahead of its June 22 governorship primary election in Edo state, the All Progressives Congress, APC, on Wednesday began the screening of its aspirants with four of them going through the process while the screening of the Edo Governor, Godwin Obaseki and another aspirant, Mathew Iduoriyekemwe was… June 10, 2020 In "Politics" The national leadership of APC yesterday set up a committee to screen its six governorship aspirants in Edo State, saying without prejudice to the work of the committee and that of the Screening Appeals Panel, the National Working Committee, NWC, has the final say on the fate of the aspirants. June 10, 2020 In "News" Governor Godwin Obaseki appeared at the All Progressives Congress secretariat to submit his nomination form and then, like an emperor, made some declarations. First and foremost, he ordered Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of the party, to stay clear of the party’s upcoming primary election. June 3, 2020 In "News"