Makurdi – The 12-year-old girl who was last week allegedly raped by a 42-year-old Eddy Ojah at Otada community in Otukpo Local Government Area of Benue state has disclosed that she placed a curse of God’s judgement on her rapist who is currently on the run. Narrating her ordeal from her hospital bed at the Otukpo General Hospital, the girl said she was returning from where her family used to grind garri and was heading home on that fateful day when a man named Eddy Ojah seized her. According to her, “I was coming back from where we grind garri in the engine at about 10 am on Tuesday and was going home to pack firewood to fry our garri when a man named Eddy Ojah grabbed me from the road. “Because the road is connected and near his house so he was coming outside, he saw me and grabbed me and kicked me into his room. “He locked the door and started beating me. After that, he went to the back door and locked it, switched on his phone music and connected it to the loudspeaker, he made it so loud and when I was shouting nobody could hear me. “After beating me, he dragged me to his bedroom and raped me. So, I now told him that if he does not repent, God is going to judge him and God will show him because he has been doing it to others. “Before I came out, he called his friend who is outside, to help him to check if there is anyone around and let him know. So his friend checked and told him that there was nobody outside. So, he opened the door for me and told me to go home. He warned me that if I tell anybody, he would kill me. “I am in the hospital, I was admitted since then,” the little girl said as she wept. Vanguard News Nigeria This may as well be a season of rape in Nigeria. A nation, still coming to terms with eight rape cases in a row, recorded two more incidents, yesterday, after a 13-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped in Kaduna and another, 12 years, sexually assaulted in Otukpo, Benue State. June 7, 2020 In "News" By Peter Duru - Makurdi A 12-year-old girl, name withheld has been allegedly raped by a 42-year-old man, Dennis Ojah at Otada community in Otukpo Local Government Area of Benue state. Sunday Vanguard gathered from sources in the community that the suspect who is currently on the run forcefully took… June 7, 2020 In "News" If recent reports are anything to go by, these are indeed strange times, especially in a country where there is an upsurge in girl-children being abused and robbed of their innocence by randy men who have become specialists in taking advantage of them and traumatising them in the process. February 11, 2015 In "Metro"