The Northern Elders Forum (NEF) in a statement Sunday signed by its Convener, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, alleged that the insecurity in some northern states of the country was an indication that President Muhammadu Buhari and the governors of those states have lost control over the protection of the people which is a constitutional duty. Disclosing this in a statement signed by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President, Presidency said: “We are not surprised by this latest statement by Prof. Abdullahi, and our past position on what his group represents remains unchanged: a mere irritant and featherweight. “The former vice-chancellor signed the statement under the banner of Northern Elders Forum (NEF). Hearing that title, you would think the body was a conglomeration of true elders. But the truth is that NEF is just Ango Abdullahi, and Ango Abdullahi is NEF. It is a quasi-organization that boasts of no credible membership, and its leader is akin to a General without troops. READ ALSO: George Floyd: Joe Biden under pressure to pick black VP Before the 2019 presidential election, the one-man army called NEF had shown its antipathy against President Buhari, and its preference for another candidate. They all got beaten together. NEF is merely waving a flag that is at half-mast. President Buhari steadily and steadfastly focuses on the task of retooling Nigeria, and discerning Nigerians know the true state of the nation. They don’t need a paper tiger to tell them anything.” Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru THE Presidency on Sunday berated the Northern Elders Forum, NEF, saying that it does not have any credible membership. The Presidency in a statement signed by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina described the association as a one-man show that… February 10, 2020 In "Politics" ABUJA- THE Presidency last night described the Northern Elders Forum, NEF, as a mere irritant and featherweight group without credible membership. June 14, 2020 In "News" Professor Ango AbdullahiThe National Convener Pro- Nigeria Elders Council (PRONECO), Chief Hon. Simon Shango, has replied Chairman, Northern Elders Forum (NEF) Prof. Ango Abdullahi, describing President Muhammadu Buhari as a democratic leader and not a northern President. Mr Shango's reaction trails Prof. Abdullahi's comments wherein the latter alleged that “poverty,… February 9, 2020 In "News"