Bayern Munich are set to employ a new tactic in their bid to sign Leroy Sane from Manchester City. Sane has been linked with a move to the Bundesliga giants since last summer, and he appeared to be close to the move before suffering a cruciate ligament injury in the Community Shield. Bayern’s interest hasn’t wavered, and they are keen to secure the 24-year-old’s signature this summer But City’s asking price remains a stumbling block, with the Premier League side demanding €70m, with Bayern offering just €40m. But according to Sky in Germany, Bayern have told City they will be patient to ensure they are not paying over the odds for the Germany international. The report claims Bayern have told Manchester City they can wait until January to negotiate the deal with Sane, when he will be free to negotiate with teams in Europe, six months before his contract at the Etihad expires. This would mean he could move to the Allianz for free in the summer of 2021, a deal that would suit both Bayern and Sane, who would likely receive a bigger signing bonus as a result. But Bayern are eager for Sane to join them at the end of this season, and with Manchester City unlikely to want to lose out on a transfer fee for a player who cost them £46.8m four years ago, the Bavarian side believe they will reduce their asking price. Football 365 Vanguard Bayern Munich president Uli Hoeness confirmed on Thursday that the newly-crowned Bundesliga champions are considering a summer move for Manchester City winger Leroy Sane. May 23, 2019 In "News" Manchester City are considering a move for Bayern Munich winger Kingsley Coman if Leroy Sane joins the German champions as expected in the summer. Sane has long been linked with a move to Bayern, with former boss Niko Kovac revealing in July that the club were "working very hard" to… November 16, 2019 In "Sports" Reigning Bundesliga champions Bayern Munich have reportedly agreed a transfer with Manchester City winger Leroy Sane on a five-year deal, according to a report. Sport Bild claim the 24-year-old has agreed terms with Bayern, but the fee is still to be negotiated. According to the magazine, Bayern's director of sport… May 6, 2020 In "Sports"