About a year ago, the Nigerian social media space was greatly buzzing after one of the top contenders on the BBNaija 2019 show, Tacha, was disqualified. After Tacha’s exit from the show, she received a number of promises from people who claimed to be fans and many of them made financial pledges. One year after, Tacha who obviously sounded disappointed, has come out to label all of them as scam; claiming the only money she got was from the GoFundMe account that was created for her by her fans. Tacha, who made this revelation during a recent episode of the BBNaija reunion show where she was asked about all the donations she received from people, said “The only money that did come in that was legit and made public, was the GoFundMe account. And the funny part is that when you see this person say ‘I’m going to give you this certain millions of naira’, this other person doesn’t want to give. They are calculating all the millions and are like, this girl should have a 138m in her account. But most of them were just people making videos to catch clout off of it. All of those millions online, they were all scam.” Tacha was a strong contender in the 2019 edition of BBNaija show, which was won eventually by Mercy Eke. VANGUARD The only Housemate who never repeated same cloth twice this year’s Big Brother show was themed ‘Pepper Dem’ which could mean ‘wow them or dazzle them’ and nobody interpreted that in fashion and style than Mercy. October 12, 2019 In "Entertainment" Big Brother Naija 'Pepper Dem' two female housemates, Mercy and Tacha have been the most outstanding females out of the whole lot of the 'Pepper Dem Gang', both for their rivalry and popularity. The two ladies also made made history of their own. November 12, 2019 In "Entertainment" It is no news that Tacha is the most controversial housemate in the ongoing Big Brother Naija show at the moment. As always, she has given fans something to talk about after a video of her saying she prefers married men over single guys was shared online. September 25, 2019 In "Entertainment"