BUSINESS magnate, philanthropist and trained commercial pilot, Captain Hosa Okunbo, said yesterday that he has pardoned one Marvelous Zibiri, for slandering him and calling him a drug baron. Zibiri, in a publication, which went viral on the social media, had described Okunbo as a “drug baron.” But on June 20, 2020,  Zibiri through his lawyer, tendered an apology to Okunbo, seeking his patience and understanding. In two separate letters of apology and undertaking, dated June 23, 2020, Zibiri  said: “I further hereunder undertake never to be involved in such publications affecting him (Okunbo) in any manner. I hope Captain Idahosa will find a heart to forgive me and withdraw the petition against me in the FIB. “I wish to undertake that I shall make wide and copious publications in both print and social media, recanting, withdrawing and disclaiming slanderous publications against Captain Okunbo.” Captain Okunbo had through his lawyer, in a letter dated June 21, complained of the publication. Explaining why he pardoned Zibiri, Okunbo said: “Being an elder statesman and a person with good interest of the youths and people of Edo State, coupled with several pleas from his people, I have  decided to forgive and not press charges on the condition that Zibiri keeps to his undertakings as expressed through his lawyer’s letter and reiterated in the response to the one by my lawyer. “Though serious damage has been caused by Zibiri acts and conduct, and though his undertakings, pleas and withdrawals may not adequately redress or compensate for the damage, but being a father figure to such youths and out of his magnanimity, I decided to forgive and let go if the conditions, aforesaid, are met.” Vanguard  It was a needless and avoidable friction. But, perhaps, providence had an unsuspecting need for the script. Earlier this month, Hon. Marvellous Muhizu Zibiri had slandered the highly respected philanthropist, Captain Idahosa Wells Okunbo when in a willfully damaging publication, which went viral on the social media, described the… June 24, 2020 In "News" It was a needless and avoidable friction. But, perhaps, providence had an unsuspecting need for the script. Earlier this month, Hon. Marvelous Muhizu Zibiri had slandered the highly respected philanthropist, Captain Idahosa Wells Okunbo, when in a willfully damaging publication, which went viral on the social media he described the… June 23, 2020 In "Viewpoint" By Dapo Akinrefon PRIOR to the disqualification of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State from participating in the governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress, APC, an oil magnate and trained commercial pilot, Captain Idahosa Okunbo, had denied having an interest in the race. Okunbo easily became a target for… June 22, 2020 In "News"