 The Senate has charged the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) to double its efforts to promote corporate governance practices in the banking industry. Meanwhile the Senate has successfully screened the two nominees of President Muhammadu Buhari, Ms. Diana Okonta and Hajiya Ya’ana Yaro as non-executive directors to the NDIC board. Speaking during the screening exercise, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Institutions, Senator Uba Sani noted that like other parts of the world, Nigeria was facing difficult situation with the fight against COVID-19. He therefore   charged the NDIC board and management to re-double their efforts at promoting good corporate governance practices in the banking industry. He  also commended the NDIC for constantly responding to emerging trends and business models in the financial sector. Also speaking at the exercise, female members of the committee, Senators Betty Apiafi and Uche Ekwunife expressed the committee’s satisfaction with the President for appointing women to the board of the corporation. They  noted that both nominees were accomplished technocrats of very high quality who had distinguished themselves in their chosen careers. President Muhammadu Buhari had earlier forwarded to the Senate, names of Ms. Diana Okonta and Hajiya Ya’ana Yaro as Non-Executive Director nominees to represent the South-South and North-East geo-political zones, respectively, on the board of the NDIC. Ms. Diana, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountant of Nigeria (ICAN) had over thirty years cognate experience spanning both the private and public sectors. Hajiya Ya’ana Yaro, is a member of the ICAN and Nigeria Institute of Marketing with over thirty years’ experience in both the private and public sectors.  Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) has called on the Institute of Directors (IoD) to come up with a transparent and rigorous system of selecting independent directors of banks. January 30, 2018 In "Business" Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has charged the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) to team up with other stakeholders to address the problem of non-performing loans in the banking industry. April 10, 2019 In "Business" ABUJA—Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation, NDIC, returned N7 billion operating surplus to the treasury at the end of its 2018 fiscal year. January 25, 2019 In "News"