Pep Guardiola’s former manager Juanma Lillo has been reunited with the Catalan as Manchester City’s new assistant boss, the club confirmed on Tuesday. Lillo, 54, left his post as coach of Qingdao Huanghai last week with the Chinese side claiming he was returning to Spain to look after his “seriously ill” mother. However, it quickly emerged that Lillo was in line to replace Mikel Arteta, who took charge of Arsenal in December, as Guardiola’s number two.’ “I am delighted to have joined Manchester City’s coaching staff,” Lillo said in a City statement. “My relationship with Pep goes back many years and I am thrilled to be joining him as part of this exciting team. “Manchester City has enjoyed much success over recent seasons and played a brand of beautiful football we have come to expect from this club and its manager.” Lillo and Guardiola first teamed up at Mexican side Dorados at the end of Guardiola’s playing career in 2006. In a nomadic coaching career, Lillo has also managed sides in Colombia and Japan, but spent most of his time with a series of clubs in Spain. According to The New York Times in 2016, Lillo described the City manager as “one of the most important people in my life, like a son to me”. City’s director of football Txiki Begiristain added: “We are delighted to welcome Juanma to Manchester City. “His vast experience working across three continents and with some of the most famous names in world football will be an invaluable asset to Pep and his team. “We look forward to him playing a vital role as we return to football.” VANGUARD Pressure for sweeping reforms to policing intensified in the United States on Monday after two weeks of protests over the death of African American George Floyd, as the white officer accused of killing him prepared for his first court appearance. Demonstrators’ anger over the May 25 death of Floyd, 46,… June 8, 2020 In "Foreign" The white Minneapolis police officer in the United States seen on video kneeling on George Floyd’s neck was arrested on murder charges Friday and accused in court papers of ignoring another officer who was worried about the handcuffed black man who died after pleading that he could not breathe. Derek… May 29, 2020 In "Foreign" APART from our 1999 Constitution which was patterned after the American presidential system of government, in what other ways does Nigeria aspire to be like the United States? We share America’s ethno-religious diversity and market-driven economies. America has deeply troubling racial problems yet the country remains the wealthiest and most… June 9, 2020 In "Editorial"