The Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde has confirmed that one of the two inconclusive COVID-19 results for members of the Oyo State Executive Council, has returned positive after a retest was carried out. This is just as the Governor, who is also the chairman of the COVID-19 task force of the state confirmed that about 169 COVID-19 cases received their second negative test results and have been discharged. Makinde disclosed this through his Twitter handle said these brings the number of discharged cases in Oyo State to 508. He also stated that the COVID-19 confirmation tests for seventy-six suspected cases came back positive. The cases are from Ibadan SW (35), Oluyole (12), Ibadan N (12), Egbeda (4), Ibadan NW (3), Lagelu (2), Ibadan SE (2), Ibadan NE (2), Akinyele (1), Saki W (1), Ona Ara (1) & Ido (1) LGAs. “So, the total number of confirmed cases in Oyo State today is 1,264. “Sadly, we had one COVID-19 related death. So, the number of deaths in Oyo State is ten.” Governor Makinde advised people in the state to keep following the guidelines of the COVID-19 Task Force and ensure slow down in the spread of coronavirus in Oyo State. Vanguard By Ola Ajayi - Ibadan Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has confirmed that another member of his cabinet has tested positive for COVID-19. This latest new case brings to four those who have contacted the pandemic in the Oyo State cabinet. The governor had written on his Facebook account… June 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Confirmed cases of people tested positive for Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Oyo State jumped to 162 as 19 more were recorded on Wednesday. This was according to the latest figures released by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Wednesday and confirmed by Gov Seyi Makinde on Thursday. The 19… May 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The American returnee who became the index case in Oyo State has been discharged after completing his round of treatment. This is just as the Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde on Monday confirmed he has tested positive to the rampaging coronavirus otherwise known as COVID-19. The governor who tweeted… March 31, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"