Manchester United striker Odion Ighalo has failed to rule out a possible return to Super Eagles barely one year after announcing his retirement from the national team. The 30-year-old inspired the country to third-place finish at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations competition staged in Egypt. He finished as the tournament’s highest goals scorer and ended up winning the golden boot last year. And he also chose that moment to bow out of the national team. After sealing an extension at Manchester United, the former Watford star reveals the national team coach Gernot Rohr called to congratulate him. Ighalo added that the NFF president Amaju Pinnick also did the same, adding that they have always been in contact even after he stopped playing for the country. The attacker insisted that there’s a possibility he returns to the team but wants to focus on helping the Red Devils finish strong. He told Brila FM: “I am still in contact with Gernot Rohr and Amaju Pinnick, and they congratulated me on my loan deal. “I am still thinking about returning to the national team, but right now I want to concentrate on my club career “I left the national team because of the distance between Nigeria and China, but now that I am in Manchester and just like life and in my career, you never can tell”, he said. Vanguard Former Flying Eagles coach Tunde Disu has said it would be nice to have Odion Ighalo back into the national team, from which he retired after the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations. Disu, who was speaking against the backdrop of Ighalo's move to Manchester United, stressed that the Nigerian striker… February 18, 2020 In "Sports" Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr has said the team’s leading scorer, Odion Ighalo who quit the team after the Africa Cup of Nations still has a role to play in the team. July 30, 2019 In "News" Gernot Rohr has expressed his desire to continue as Nigeria coach as he nears the expiry of his current contract with the three-time African champions. The German joined the West African nation in August 2016 on an initial two-year deal which was extended until June 2020 after the country secured… January 26, 2020 In "Sports"