Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress APC, Yekini Nabena has accused the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike of playing a leading role in “killing” the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, challenging him to explain the part he played when the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Administration introduced the “16 is greater than 19” political formula in the Forum. Addressing journalists Tuesday in Abuja, Nabena, said Gov. Wike is still living in the past when impunity was the order of the day, adding that the governor needs to wake up to the reality of a new era of justice, fairness and true democracy under the administration of the APC. The governor had on Monday described the Nigerian Governors’ Forum as “a toothless bulldog”, accusing the APC-led Federal Government of destroying the forum immediately it came to power in 2015. Nabena, however, asked Nigerians to disregard Wike’s comment, saying the Governors Forum is well alive under “a civilised Governor”, Dr. Kayode Fayemi He said; “Does Gov. Nyesom Wike think Nigerians can forget in a hurry the major role he as a PDP minister played when the then Rivers State Governor, Rotimi Amaechi scored 19 votes, but former Plateau State Governor, Jonah Jang who scored 16 votes was recognized as Chairman of the Forum? “Wike also needs to be reminded on the major role he played as a foot soldier who engineered the banning of the then Bayelsa State Governor Timipre Sylva from participating in the PDP governorship primary election in 2011. “If the Forum has been ‘killed’ as Wike states, it is clear who the killer and grave digger is”, Nabena submitted. VANGUARD Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has said that the Nigeria Governors Forum has become a toothless bulldog because it has lost focus on its role in defending the rule of law in the country. June 16, 2020 In "News" GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike on Monday exclaimed that the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) under All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership has become a "beggars forum, a toothless bulldog that can only bark and can't bite" June 15, 2020 In "Politics" Says Govs Forum under APC has become beggars forum Says Oshiomhole should apologise to Edo people Obaseki joining PDP would be cheering NMA playing suspicious politics with Covid-19 in Rivers By Egufe Yafugborhi - Port Harcourt Governor Nyesom Wike on Monday exclaimed that the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) under All… June 15, 2020 In "News"