Manchester United manager, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, on Friday congratulated bitter rivals Liverpool on their long-awaited Premier League triumph but said watching other sides lifting the trophy “hurt”. Liverpool were crowned English champions for the first time in 30 years without kicking a ball on Thursday when Chelsea beat Manchester City at Stamford Bridge. Liverpool’s 19th title triumph, which sparked wild celebrations around their Anfield home ground, left them one behind United’s record haul. “First of all, any team that wins the championship and a Premier League deserves it and they deserve credit,” United boss Solskjaer, who won six league titles as a player at Old Trafford, told reporters. “It’s a hard league to win, so well done to Jurgen (Klopp) and his players. “For me, every time you see anyone else lift the trophy it hurts. I reckon that’s the feeling everyone associated with Man United — all players, staff and supporters. Of course, we want to get back to winning ways and that’s our challenge.” Solskjaer is hoping FA Cup glory can be a springboard for further success, with United heading to Norwich on Saturday in the quarter-finals. United are fifth in the Premier League, still in the race for a Champions League spot, and are well-placed to reach the last eight of the Europa League. “I think first of all the FA Cup is a fantastic tournament, and a fantastic final to play a part in, a fantastic trophy to lift,” said Solskjaer. “For our team, it’s a new team, and to get hands-on a first trophy and win a first title would be fantastic and hopefully a catalyst for more things to come.” Solskjaer plans to rotate his squad at Carrow Road, where Jesse Lingard will feature, having yet to play a minute since the restart. “Jesse has come back after the lockdown with a smile on his face, loads of energy,” he said. “Unfortunately, last week he fell ill for a couple of days but we’ve done all the tests and he’s fine, so he’ll be involved against Norwich now and hopefully he can kick on.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Manchester United's victory against Tottenham is a statement win for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer but the team's reliance on David de Gea's heroics in goal show the interim boss still has work to do. January 14, 2019 In "News" Thirteen months on from the match that finally drew the curtain on Jose Mourinho's time in charge of Manchester United, the Red Devils again find themselves living in Liverpool's shadow ahead of their return to Anfield on Sunday. A 3-1 defeat for Mourinho's men last December that left United 19… January 19, 2020 In "Sports" Liverpool and Manchester City will resume their fight for Premier League supremacy in a midweek round of fixtures clouded by the suspected death of Cardiff striker Emiliano Sala. January 28, 2019 In "Sports"