The Screening Committee set up by the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) to screen candidates to fly the flag of the party in the forthcoming gubernatorial election, failed to screen the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, on Wednesday, June 10, 2020. In a statement, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, said the governor had arrived at the National Secretariat of the party early for screening but the committee was not ready. According to him, “The governor arrived early but the screening committee was not ready. He was given the options to either wait for one hour or if he had an appointment to keep, he could go and call them to know if they were ready. “The governor, who had a Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) meeting, went for the meeting and called when he was done, but the members of the screening committee did not pick their phones.” Vanguard gathered that the screening process is expected to last for two days; Wednesday and Thursday, 10 and 11 June 2020. Vanguard The national leadership of APC yesterday set up a committee to screen its six governorship aspirants in Edo State, saying without prejudice to the work of the committee and that of the Screening Appeals Panel, the National Working Committee, NWC, has the final say on the fate of the aspirants. June 10, 2020 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, has published the particulars of all its six governorship aspirants in Edo state, urging members of the party to raise any objection regarding the claims presented by the aspirants to the party. Those whose particulars were published were the… June 8, 2020 In "Politics" CRISIS is brewing in the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Akoko Edo Local Government Area of Edo State, following allegations of unlawful and unilateral nomination of candidates for the position of commissioner and constitution of a committee to screen them without following due process levelled against the chairman of the… March 1, 2017 In "News"