A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Director General of the Voice of Nigeria VON, Mr Osita Okechukwu has described the appellate court affirmation of the suspension of the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as good riddance to bad rubbish. Okechukwu was reacting to the decision of the Appeal Court on Tuesday in Abuja to affirm the suspension not Comrade Oshiomhole by the executives of his APC Ward 10 in Etsako Local Government Area of Edo state. He said; “It is good riddance to bad rubbish. He was playing God. One is vindicated as I had maintained that Comrade Adams was no more a valid chairman of our great party. “That out of narcissism he glossed over his valid suspension by his ward executive and with the culture of impunity failed to adhere to the provisions of APC Constitution. “A man who lost his Ward, LGA and State Exco has no reason to remain chairman. The good thing is that his suspension will afford a golden opportunity for the leadership of our party to overhaul and reposition our great party along the core progressive tenets, as we enshrined during merger in our constitution. “Let us be frank, and do a careful review of Adams’ stewardship and take our party as a company in the stock market. As MD of APC Plc and taking states controlled in 2019 as stocks, did Adams pass or fail? He failed woefully,” he declared. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Ikechukwu Nnochiri Despite ongoing effort to reconcile warring factions in the All Progressive Congress, APC, the Director-General of Voice of Nigeria, VON, Chief Osita Okechukwu, on Friday, insisted that the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, is no longer a valid member of the party. Okechukwu, while reacting to the decision… March 20, 2020 In "Politics" The polity was awash with mixed views, yesterday, as Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, and his Deputy, Comrade Phillip Shaibu, ended days of speculations on the direction of their political future by quitting the All Progressives Congress, APC.The polity was awash with mixed views, yesterday, as Governor Godwin Obaseki… June 17, 2020 In "News" ENUGU-WARD leaders of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Eke, Udi local government area of Enugu state has ordered the party's National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to quickly reverse the purported suspension from party of the Director General of Voice of Nigeria, Mr Adams Oshiomhole. March 3, 2019 In "News"