Edo State government has said Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress, APC, will announce the disqualification of Governor Godwin Obaseki from the patty’s primaries today. This was contained in a statement from the state house, entitled “Tyrant Oshiomhole bares fangs, to announce Obaseki’s disqualification from APC primary election”, which accused Oshiomhole of “extreme display of lawlessness and dictatorship”. It said: “The extreme display of lawlessness and dictatorship by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole would reach its peak today when he would announce in a press conference the disqualification of Governor Godwin Obaseki, from contesting the primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “In record time, Oshiomhole has subverted all due process and broken all the laws in the books in his ultimate quest to crown himself as the godfather of politics in Edo State. “Like he stated recently that he is the Supreme Court and the ultimate determiner of the fate of aspirants for governorship seat under the APC, he has executed his pre-conceived agenda of stopping Governor Obaseki from flying the flag of the party, at all cost. “After pushing the failed narrative about Governor Obaseki’s educational qualification and meeting a brick wall with the University of Ibadan’s response, he resorted to using his characteristic brute force to disqualify the governor.” Vanguard The National Association of Nigeria Traditional Medicine Practitioners (NANTMP) has endorsed Governor Godwin Obaseki’s bid for re-election on account of the governor’s sterling performance in infrastructure, education, healthcare, among other sectors of the state. President, NANTMP, Chief Prof. Omon Oleabhiele, who addressed journalists in Benin City, said Governor Obaseki deserves… June 3, 2020 In "Politics" All Progressives Congress, APC leaders in Edo State on Thursday berated the Governor of the state, Godwin Obaseki for dragging the name of the party's Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole into the mock primary that he was not involved. Apparently peeved by the governor's comment calling on the Federal Government to hold… May 8, 2020 In "News" Immediate-past National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun has weighed in on the crisis rocking the party is his home state, Edo, accusing his successor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole of anti-party activities. June 23, 2019 In "News"