The members of Ethiopian House of Peoples Representatives (MPs) have on Wednesday endorsed the extension of the nation’s Prime Minister, Abiy Ahmed, term as the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic forced the authorities to postpone elections slated for August. According to the state media, the PM may remain in power till international health institutions announced the pandemic is over. The move by the House of Federation, the upper house of parliament, was sure to anger opposition leaders who have accused Abiy of using the pandemic to artificially extend his time in office, and analysts warned of possible protests and boycotts. “The House of Federation has approved a decision to extend the term of all assemblies until international health institutions have deemed the threat from coronavirus to be over,” the Ethiopian News Agency reported. The lawmakers did not specify when exactly elections should happen. But their vote was an endorsement of recommendations submitted by the Council of Constitutional Inquiry, an advisory body that called for “elections to be held nine to 12 months after the coronavirus is deemed not to be a public health concern”. Abiy, the winner of last year’s Nobel Peace Prize who was appointed to his position in 2018, is seeking a popular mandate for wide-ranging political and economic reforms. But Ethiopia’s election board announced in March that it would be impossible to organise the polls on time because of the pandemic. That meant elections would not happen before lawmakers’ terms end in October — a dilemma for which the constitution does not provide a clear answer. The Council of Constitutional Inquiry held public hearings last month on possible next steps, though critics said these were insufficiently inclusive of opposition voices. Some opposition leaders have called for a caretaker or transitional government to guide the country to elections, a suggestion Abiy dismissed as unworkable during a question-and-answer session on Monday with lawmakers. Dawud Ibsa, chairman of the opposition Oromo Liberation Front, told AFP Wednesday that the House of Federation vote “does not have any constitutional basis”. He said his party would meet soon to figure out how to respond. If major opposition parties reject the recommendations from the Council of Constitutional Inquiry, “protests or election boycotts could become a reality, reducing the chances of successful competitive polls in 2021,” said William Davison of the International Crisis Group (ICG), a conflict-prevention organisation. “That would mean more political instability and undermine the planned democratic transition,” he said. Ethiopia recorded its first case of COVID-19 in mid-March. So far, its official figures are relatively low, with 2,506 cases and 35 deaths. But more than half of those cases have been recorded in the past 10 days, and the health ministry said last week that cases were “increasing rapidly due to the presence of community transmission”. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Ethiopian Prime Minister, Abiy Ahmed, on Monday ruled out forming a transitional government once his mandate expires in early October, brushing aside accusations that he was misusing the coronavirus epidemic and delayed polls to artificially extend his rule. Africa's second most populous country was due to hold national elections in… June 9, 2020 In "Foreign" Ethiopian authorities have been using the COVID-19 outbreak and a state of emergency declared on April 8, as a pretext to silence critical voices and limit free speech, according to a prominent rights watchdog. The Human Rights Watch (HRW) said this in a statement on Wednesday. “A new state of… May 6, 2020 In "News" Prominent activist Jawar Mohammed does not rule out challenging his erstwhile ally, Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, in next year’s election, he told Reuters on Friday, after days of demonstrations by his supporters resulted in 16 deaths. Jawar’s ability to organize street protests helped propel Abiy to power last year,… October 25, 2019 In "Foreign"