Police in Rivers State asked residents to ignore the 8 pm to 6 am COVID-19 containment curfew imposed by Governor Nyesom Wike and instead honour the 10 pm to 4 am protocol stipulated by Federal Government. The Police Command in Rivers in response to residents’ complaints said Wednesday that it was lawful it works with the federal curfew in the face of the conflict with that declared by the state government. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Rivers Command, Nnamdi Omoni said, “Both federal and the state government in Rivers have a common goal of ensuring safety and peace with the curfew, but it is elementary and commonsensical that when a state law conflicts with federal law, the federal law overrides the state law. “Though the intendment of the state law is in consonance with that of the federal government, if the federal government says 10 pm should be the curfew time, then we should work with the federal government order.” He said the police were bound to abide by the curfew fixed by federal government, urging any resident who feels his rights breached under the circumstance to call and relay such complaint to the police authorities in the state. Vanguard News Nigeria. Residents of parts of Port Harcourt were forced off the streets on Tuesday by security personnel as Gov. Nyesom Wike imposed a dusk to dawn curfew in parts of the state. March 31, 2020 In "News" ...Recalls suspended council boss By Egufe Yafugborhi - Port Harcourt Governor Nyesom Wike has lifted the curfew he imposed on parts of Port Harcourt metropolis in sustained Rivers state's aggressive measures to check the spread of coronavirus in the state. Wike had 30 March imposed the 24hr curfew from Education… April 2, 2020 In "News" Ponders state wide curfew Suspends LG boss To derobe monarchs condoning markets opening in domains By Egufe Yafugborhi GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike has imposed dusk to dawn curfew on specific localities in Port Harcourt and environs in furtherance aggressive measures to check spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) in Rivers State. Wike in… March 30, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"