Nigerian singer and songwriter, Peruzzi, whose real name is Tobechukwu Victor Okoh, is surely fighting the battle of his life to save his career, after a Twitter user accused him of raping her in his apartment eight years ago. The Twitter user who goes by the username, @Jayamah22, recalls how she was raped by the DMW record label signee, when she accompanied her girlfriend to the musician’s place at Victoria Island, Lagos. According to her, her girlfriend was dating Peruzzi at the time and went to spend the night with her man. At night according to Jayamah, Peruzzi came to meet her where she was sleeping and forcefully had his way with her, despite her pleas. She claimed she could not come out to talk at that time, because she was naïve and her parents, who thought she was in school, didn’t know she was in Lagos then. Peruzzi, who is not new to being accused of rape, as he was accused earlier this year of rape by a UK based singer, Daffy Blanco, has not really responded to this allegation, but on Wednesday, he went on Twitter and tweeted “My name is Okoh Tobechukwu, I have never and will never be a rapist.” Will this be enough to clear him of all these rape allegations or would there be more twists to these allegations? Only time can tell. VANGUARD Peruzzi By Emmanuel Okogba A record label is seeking to stop Tobechukwu Victor Okoh better known as Peruzzi from performing, recording new songs or even featuring in songs of other artists over a record deal that went sour. Peruzzi who is seen mostly with Davido's DMW crew members, according to… November 19, 2019 In "Entertainment" When DMW signed music act, Tobechukwu Victor Okoh, a.k.a Peruzzi, lost the Best New Artiste award category to Teniola Apata, at the Soundcity MVP awards which held in January 2019, he wasted no time in sharing his dissatisfaction, which in turn sparked off mixed reactions from music pundits, fans and… June 11, 2019 In "Entertainment" Recently, Patrick Anyaene, owner of Golden Boy Entertainment, accused Davido, of cheating him by signing his former artiste, Peruzzi, to Davido Music Worldwide. He also accused Peruzzi of breaching the three years contract he signed with Golden Boy Entertainment by officially signing on to Davido Music Worldwide. August 31, 2018 In "Entertainment"