The Oyo State Government has strongly denied insinuations that it is responsible for the delay in burying the immediate past governor of the state, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, who died on Thursday. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Seyi Makinde, Mr Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the insinuations amounted to a wicked lie. The statement read: “In view of the intense enquiries from news media organisations regarding the perceived delay in burying the late former Governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, the Oyo State Government wishes to place on record that there is no truth in the rumour making the rounds that the burial is being delayed by the state government. “The rumour, which is being deliberately spread to give the state government a bad name and to play undue politics with the dead, initially came by the way of social media gossip, which gained traction to attract the attention of traditional media outfits. “Several media outfits reached out to the Media Office of the Governor of Oyo State to make enquiries on this barefaced lie on Saturday. “Let it be stated clearly that the Governor of Oyo State, Engineer Seyi Makinde, has played no role at all in causing any delay whatsoever regarding the burial of his immediate predecessor, Senator Ajimobi. “The truth of the matter is that the family, through a proxy, approached the state government and sought approval to bury the late governor on a plot of land at Agodi GRA, which is currently under litigation. “Incidentally, it was the same former Governor Ajimobi who instituted the legal action. “Governor Seyi Makinde had no choice than to state the facts as they are to the emissaries and turn down the request. “Governor Makinde, however, against the established land use rule in Oyo State, gave approval that the family can bury the late governor in his Oluyole Estate residence. “It is to be noted that the rules guiding land use in Government Reservation Areas (GRA) forbid the burial of bodies in such locations as Oluyole Estate and Agodi GRA. “Let us also put on record that whereas the family did not follow the laid down protocols in passing information on the sickness and eventual demise of Senator Ajimobi, Governor Makinde overlooked all that and directed the full cooperation of the government with the family on this matter. “It can only amount to a wicked lie to insinuate that the incumbent government in Oyo State attempted to obstruct the burial of the immediate past governor.” Vanguard IBADAN—OYO State Governor-elect, Mr Seyi Makinde has said that his recent comments on the fresh contracts being awarded by the state government was not meant to attack the personality of the incumbent governor, Abiola Ajimobi. March 28, 2019 In "News" By Adeola Badru Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has disclosed that late Senator Abiola Ajimobi, the immediate-past governor of the state, would be remembered for leaving a blueprint for some of the activities that his administration is now undertaking. The governor, while expressing sadness over the death of the… June 25, 2020 In "News" FORMER Governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi has filed a suit against Governor Seyi Makinde over the revocation of his landed property at Agodi Government Reservation Area (GRA), Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. February 13, 2020 In "News"