Aisha Buhari has called on the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to immediately release her aides who were reportedly detained based on the orders of the Chief Security Officer to the President, Idris Kassim. Aisha Buhari stated this in a series of tweets on Friday. “That Covid-19 is real and still very much around in our nation is not in doubt. Consequently, I call on all relevant Government Agencies to enforce the Quarantine Act signed by Mr President and ensure no one is found violating this law and the NCDC guidelines. “Especially on interstate travel without the necessary exemptions for movement of essentials. Anyone who does that should at the very least be made to undergo 14 days mandatory isolation no matter who the person is, no one should be above the law and the Police command. “Will do well to remember that. Finally, I call on the IGP to release my assigned Staff who are still in the custody of the Police in order to avoid putting their lives in danger or exposure to Covid-19 while in their custody. That Covid-19 is real and still very much around in our nation is not in doubt. Consequently, I call on all relevant Government Agencies to enforce the Quarantine Act signed by Mr. President and ensure no one is found violating this law and the NCDC guidelines — Aisha M. Buhari (@aishambuhari) June 12, 2020  An earlier report revealed that a top aide to the President, Yusuf Sabiu aka Tunde, who had recently returned from another state, refused to self-isolate but forced his way to the Presidential Villa. Aisha Buhari’s aides were said to have forcibly removed him from the Villa but Sabiu, who is one of the most powerful aides to the President, allegedly got the CSO to arrest Aisha’s aides including her ADC, Usman Shugaba. Vanguard WIFE of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari, yesterday, denied receiving any vehicle from the Inspector General of Police, IGP, Abubakar Idris, as claimed by Senator Isah Misau. October 27, 2017 In "Headlines" First Lady and wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari has reacted to the claim made by the lawmaker representing Bauchi State, Senator Isah Misau, saying she received two Sports Utility Vehicles (SUVs) from the Inspector General of Police, Mr Ibrahim Idris. October 26, 2017 In "News" Though not a Police officer, she personifies the Nigeria Police Force, NPF, more than even the personnel. October 7, 2017 In "Headlines"