Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of  Kano State, has ordered a house-to-house sample collection of suspected COVID-19 patients,  particularly in the eight local government areas that make the metropolis. Ganduje made the pronouncement, yesterday, following a data released by the state Task Force on COVID-19, which confirmed that the virus was fast spreading within the eight councils that make the metropolis. More so, the data by the task force confirmed that Taurani Local Government Area of the state  recorded the highest number of COVID-19 patients. The governor said, “We are putting our emphasis within the eight metropolitan local government areas. We are engaging in house-to-house sample collection. I think during the political campaign, some politicians engaged in house-to-house campaign. Right now, for COVID-19, we are engaging in house-to-house sample collection campaign. “There is no doubt we are always improving in our successes in the fight against COVID-19. This is as a result of the commitment of the Task Force and commitment of the front line health workers.” “By now, we have known the easiest way to contract the disease and the easiest way to avoid it. We know the three commandments of COVID-19, which are social distancing, washing and sanitizing our hands and wearing our face mask.” Vanguard In the face of the increasing cases of coronavirus, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State says it may subsequently carry out house to house sample collections to stem the spread of the deadly disease. May 5, 2020 In "News" BUA Foundation has donated five ambulances and 20 Hilux vehicles to assist Kano State government in stemming the spread of the virus in the state as part of its COVID-19 health infrastructure and response grant for the state. BUA Foundation is the philanthropic arm of Africa’s leading foods and infrastructure… May 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The strange deaths in Kano continued, yesterday, with the passing of four prominent citizens of the state. They include a cleric, Sheik Tijjani Yola, who wa also the head of Murtala Mohammed Central Mosque in the state; father of Vice Chancellor of National Open University, NOUN, Uba Adamu; former speaker of… April 29, 2020 In "News"