WARRI: An Itsekiri group, Association for the Promotion of Peace and Development in Itsekiri Oil and Gas communities, APPDIOGCOM, have called on the federal.government to pay the 13 derivation fund accruing to the Niger Delta region directly to oil and gas bearing communities. A statement by the group signed by its Leader, Princess Grace Fregene said payment of the fund to communities will bring development to the neglected communities, adding that the funds would be judiciously used. “Only him that wears the shoes knows where pinches hence governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa state did not mince words as his call was for the 13% derivation to be paid to the host /oil-producing communities directly, not to the governor of the oil state. Clearly, the 1999 constitution, section 162, subsection 2 states the 13% derivation should be given to the host communities directly not to any organ of government.”, the group said. “Besides the law does not permit state government to legislate on the 13% derivation fund since it is the Exclusive list. So far the President Muhammadu Buhari has been operating within the radar of the constitution. Hence we the Association of the Promotion of Peace and Development in Itsekiri Oil and Gas communities, APPDIOGCOM, have no iota of doubt that he will correct this age-long anomaly by paying 13% derivation fund to the host communities directly”, it added. Vanguard News Nigeria ITSEKIRI oil producing communities in Delta State, yesterday, warned that they will shut down oil wells and flow stations in Itsekiri territory if shortchanged of their due percentage from the 13 per cent derivation fund. May 7, 2015 In "News" Festus Ahon Host communities of Oben and Gelegele Flow Station in Edo State have appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to follow the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and direct that the 13% oil derivation fund for facilities in their domains be paid directly to them. The communities,… December 8, 2019 In "News" NATIONAL leadership of  Host Communities of Nigeria, HOSCON, has told President Muhammadu Buhari to stop perceived illegal and unconstitutional payment of 13 percent derivation fund through state governors who are third line charge on the Federation Account and pay same directly to the host communities through the proposed Presidential Derivation… March 10, 2020 In "News"