Living Faith Church, Igbogene, Salvation Victory Centre, Igbogene, Shalom International Christian Centre, along Tombia-Amassoma road, Great Grace Distinguished Assembly, Okutukutu, Brotherhood of the Cross and Star, Opolo and Hebrews International Church, Ayama road, were on Sunday sealed by the Bayelsa state government for breaching coronavirus protocols in the state. The state government on May 7,  relaxed its restriction on social gatherings and allowed churches to hold services with up to 50 worshipers. The relaxation was granted, subject to compliance to strict conditions on provision of hand washing facilities, wearing of face masks and observance of social distancing in the seating arrangements. Mr Freston Akpor, Permanent Secretary, Bayelsa Ministry of Information, however, told NAN on Monday in Yenagoa,  that the Security Sub – Committee of the state’s Task Force on COVID- 19, sealed the churches during its surveillance on Sunday. “The six churches were sealed for failure to comply with safety measures put in place by the government to contain the spread of the pandemic and protect the people of Bayelsa. “The churches will remain sealed until further notice to serve as  deterrent  to other churches. “The move will help in ensuring that other churches adhere to the protocols on hand washing, use of face masks and social distancing as measures to check the spread of the virus in the state,” Akpor said. He said the security sub-committee of the task force on COVID-19,  unsealed two churches earlier shutdown for violating safety measures on the pandemic. Vanguard The Bayelsa Government has sealed six churches in the state for breaching ”operational protocols” required to conduct services during the COVID-19 pandemic. You would recall that the state government on May 7, relaxed its restriction on social gatherings and allowed churches to hold services with up to 50 worshipers. The… June 1, 2020 In "News" Three churches, at least, in Sapele, Delta State, on Sunday held services clearly defying government order on religious and social gatherings of more than 50 persons. March 29, 2020 In "News" Coronavirus disease which started in Wuhan, China in December 2019 has become a global pandemic within a couple of months claiming thousands of lives on a daily basis. As medical scientists battle to find vaccine to tackle and to prevent the disease, every country has adopted measures to halt its… May 16, 2020 In "News"