After six hours of deliberations on Sunday, the National Executive Council, NEC, of the National Association of Resident Doctors, NARD, has ordered an indefinite strike action on Monday (today). President of NARD, Dr. Aliyu Sokomba, disclosed the doctors’ position to Vanguard. He added that NEC also resolved to exclude doctors managing COVID-19 at the various isolation and treatment centres in Nigeria from the industrial action. According to Sokomba, the exemption was a demonstration of goodwill to Nigerians and in appreciation of the efforts and sincerity of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr. Femi Gbajamila, and other stakeholders in resolving the issues. Recall that NARD had told Vanguard that the Federal Government was living on promises. On the action, since the government failed to meet the deadline they gave, Sokomba had said he planned to present the promises that have been made to the NEC for consideration and whatever they shall decide, would be their next line of action. Hence, the decision for the resident doctors to go on strike today was taken by the NEC. Meanwhile, the Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, has warned that Nigeria cannot afford any reduction in the number of available doctors, now that the country is faced with the COVID-19 pandemic. Vanguard FG still dwelling on promises – Sokomba Any reduction in number of doctors will affect COVID-19 patients — Ihekweazu By Chioma Obinna The fight against the COVID -19 pandemic in Nigeria may suffer a set back as the Federal government is yet to honour the agreements it signed with the… June 14, 2020 In "Health" They issued the warning in a communiqué issued at the end of its 40th Ordinary General Meeting with the theme: “Health inequalities and social determinants of Health in Nigeria” in Bauchi State. May 31, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Chioma Obinna Members of the National Association of Resident Doctors, NARD, will next week Monday commence a nationwide industrial action should the Federal Government fails to meet its demands. National President of the association, Dr. Aliyu Sokomba who disclosed this in an official letter with reference number NARD/SG/2019-2020/070620/246 said… June 9, 2020 In "Health"