 The video above has been trending on social media since Sunday afternoon which has led to public outcry. Social media users called out popular Nigerian musician, Oladapo Daniel Oyebanjo, popularly known as D’Banj for allegedly violating the covid-19 guidelines in Abuja by performing at a crowded party inside a house Seeing the video, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, Police Command called on members of the public to help provide information on venue of where the party was held. The Police, in a statement by the Public Relations Officer, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, on Sunday evening said the time and venue of the video could not be verified. The statement read, “The attention of the Chairman FCT Covid-19 Enforcement Team and Commissioner of Police FCT, CP Bala Ciroma has been drawn to a video in circulation alleged to have been recorded at a party attended by Oladapo Daniel Oyebanjo, popularly known as D-Bang in Abuja. “It is pertinent to state that the venue and time the video was recorded has not been verified. “Members of the public, with privileged information, are called upon to furnish the FCT Covid-19 Enforcement Team with details of the said event. “The Team wishes to state that it would not tolerate any violation of the Quarantine act and Covid-19 guidelines.” Vanguard Nigeria News By Omeiza Ajayi ABUJA: Days after it arraigned organizers of a Naira Marley Concert in Abuja before a Mobile Court, the Federal Capital Territory FCT minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has again vowed to prosecute the musician and all those involved in violating the Covid-19 guidelines. The minister who disclosed… June 17, 2020 In "News" By David Royal The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has denied the engagement of any brand ambassador as part of its social awareness for the fight against the coronavirus (COVID19) pandemic. This is coming after numerous calls from Nigerians that the Centre should terminate its contract with Nollywood actress,… April 5, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Aston Villa captain Jack Grealish posted a public apology on Monday for breaking UK government guidelines on social distancing as police opened an investigation into an incident in which a Range Rover crashed into parked cars. Villa expressed their disappointment with Grealish and said the 24-year-old will be fined with… March 30, 2020 In "Sports"