A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Senator Abubakar Girei has said that President Buhari saved the APC which was about to be destroyed by  Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. He said in an interview that the many political troubles that characterized the ruling APC under the erstwhile leadership of  Oshiomhole were rancorous which would have consumed the party if not for the timely intervention of  Buhari, leading to the dissolution of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. Girei was reacting to the dissolution of the NWC of the party following a meeting of the NWC conveyed by the Acting National Chairman of the party Chief Victor Gaidom at the Aso Rock with the president in attendance. “APC members nationwide are very happy and proud of the very timely, bold, and courageous steps taken by our dear President Muhammadu Buhari to save our party from imminent collapse,” he said. “Dissolving Comrade Adams Oshiomhole led rancorous APC NWC was the best thing that has happened to the party since the last convention.” “Mr Oshiomhole’s bloated ego, greed, and pursuit of personal and selfish interest would have certainly ruined the party. “The choice of credible statemen and women as a caretaker committee is about the best step towards re-engineering, repositioning the party to become a truly democratic party rather than a house of commotion that Oshiomole turned it to” he stressed. Girei however, called on well-meaning party men and women to rally round the newly constituted caretaker committee members to help in repositioning the party to take her rightful position. “Adams Oshiomhole leadership of the party caused so many setbacks for the party and now that he is out of the way, rebuilding of the party ahead of future elections should be the concern of all party members,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria. THE plots of some governors to get the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole out of the equation are hitting counter-plots. December 31, 2019 In "Politics" President Muhammadu Buhari and governors of the All Progressives Congress, APC, will be part of the campaign flag-off ceremony of the party's governorship candidate in Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodimma in Owerri today. December 21, 2018 In "Politics" Reasons President Muhammadu Buhari moved against the suspended National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, emerged last night, as the  National Executive Committee, NEC, wielded the big stick to check the crisis ravaging the party and avert what the President described as self-destruction. June 26, 2020 In "News"