Below are the highlights of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State’s COVID-19 regulation of churches, schools, others, presented on Thursday, June 4. It ends with a warning: “Regulate your conduct or government will regulate you.” *Curfew from 10p.m. to 4a.m. *Financial sector (banks) to work fully *Offices to open (except the prohibited ones) from 7a.m. to 6p.m.; run shift if possible, to avoid too many staff at work together *Civil servants on levels 13 and 14 to resume on Monday, June 8 *Hotels can open *Interstate restrictions still in effect *Gyms, night clubs remain closed for two weeks for evaluation of current situation *Restricted opening of religious houses *Mosques to resume on the June 19 and Churches on June 21, at 40% of their maximum capacity. Only Friday and Sunday services would hold for now with members wearing face mask *Churches or mosques with large congregations, even at 40% cant be more than 500 worshippers *Children below 15 years and elders of 65 years and above should not go to worship centres *All events and social centres are under review for next two weeks for proper protocols check before consideration *Go to www.lasgsafetyreg.com for registration *Government agencies to go round for compliance check and assessment *Schools (tertiary) will still go on with lectures online *Pronouncement to come after protocols have been agreed for primary and secondary schools as intensive engagement is ongoing *More people are still not adhering to safety with mask-wearing; regulate your conduct or government will regulate you. Vanguard ...500 worshippers per service, other special services still suspended ...Social centres to resume operations under strict guidelines By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Thursday, modified the lockdown directive on Churches and Mosques when he ordered their reopening from June 19 and June 21, 2020. Sanwo-Olu made… June 4, 2020 In "News" Rendeavour, Africa’s largest private city developer and partner to the Lagos State Government on the Alaro City project, has taken a cue from Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s Daily Food Kitchen Programme. April 18, 2020 In "News" In fulfillment of his promises to renew infrastructure in critical sectors, Lagos State Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu is to inaugurate housing, education, and road projects as part of activities to mark one year in the office. The state  Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, said in a statement on… May 25, 2020 In "News"