 UMUAHIA -Abia State government has expressed dissatisfaction with some churches in the state over their failure to comply with COVID -19 protocols. Chairman, State Inter-Ministerial Committee on COVID-19, Barr. Chris Ezem, who frowned at the flagrant flouting of COVID-19 protocols by some churches in Umuahia, blamed clerics and their members over the development, warning that any church found flouting the State government’s guidelines of 50 worshippers per stream of service stands the risk of being sealed off. Ezem, who is the Secretary to the State Government, expressed shock that worshippers failed to put on facemasks and observe social distancing in their sitting arrangements in the church despite directives by the government. In his words, “COVID-19 has entered the community infection stage. We keep emphasizing on this daily, but it looks like the churches are taking it as a joke. It is not! COVID-19 is not written on anyone’s face; it is neither malaria nor measles whose symptoms are visible. One can contract the virus by coming to church and not following the guidelines of the government.” He reiterated that the ban on children attending church worships and other gatherings was still in force, as they are vulnerable to COVID 19 infection and commended the also commended the leadership of the Anglican Communion, Ehimiri, Umuahia, for complying with the State Government COVID-19 protocols. While warning that the government was yet to reopen schools, he disclosed that the government would continue to undertake regular checks of compliance by religious worship centers.  By Ugochukwu Alaribe & Eric Ugbor Following the lockdown in Abia State over the COVID-19 pandemic, the state government has handed over N40 million, 4,000 bags of rice, sanitizers and face mask as palliatives to different churches and Muslim groups in the state. Other items distributed to the churches and… April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" ...Mandates use of facemasks in church, mosque services By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Government has expressed confidence in the clinical trial of hydroxychloroquine as treatment for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) despite controversy. Recall that World Health Organisation, WHO, Director-General, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, two weeks ago announced the temporary suspension of… June 5, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Awka—The Anglican Bishop of Aguata Diocese in Anambra State, Right Reverend Samuel Ezeofor, has faulted the decision to shut down churches in the name of fighting the coronavirus pandemic, arguing that the ideal thing would have been to ask churches to maintain social distance. April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"