The perception from some quarters that nature is getting a break during the COVID-19 pandemic is not true. Instead, many rural areas in the tropics are facing increased pressure from land-grabbing, deforestation, illegal mining, and wildlife poaching, according to World Economic Forum in a report. The report noted, however, that to respond to this crisis of human health, the economy, the climate and biodiversity, we need solutions that build resilient societies for the long term. The report said “In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, global media is reporting on a ‘silver lining’ of the crisis that nature is getting a break as people are forced to stay home. Penguins on the streets of Cape Town, a kangaroo roaming around Adelaide and a crab-eating fox exploring Bogotá suburbs are just a few examples. These stories are coupled with reports of clean air over Delhi, Seoul, and even Los Angeles. “However, these reports give the misleading impression that Mother Earth stands to benefit from the restrictions on movement imposed on people around the world, especially in cities. “The world’s ecosystems are at risk. Unfortunately, outside urban areas, the situation is very different. In rural areas, there is less wealth and the main savings account for people is nature, with hunting, fishing and logging necessary to provide food and support livelihoods. “People who moved to cities and have now lost their employment and income opportunities due to the quarantines are returning to their rural homes, further increasing the pressure on natural resources while also increasing the risk of COVID-19 transmission to rural areas. “At the same time, opportunistic actors and criminal groups involved in land-grabbing, deforestation, illegal mining and wildlife poaching are taking advantage of the fact that governments are focused on COVID-19 instead of on conservation. “There are reports of increased deforestation in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Areas dependent on tourism to fund conservation such as community conservancies in Kenya and iconic natural World Heritage Sites like the Galápagos, Ecuador and the Tubbataha Reef in the Philippines are facing reduced resources as tourism has come to a halt. “Meanwhile, illegal mining for gold and precious stones in Latin America and Africa is on the rise, as prices spike and protected areas are left unguarded. “These increased pressures on nature and rural areas are expected to persist until economies rebound and governments are able to refocus on conservation”, the report averred. It further stated that “This gives the false impression that the protection of nature is a secondary concern in controlling disease outbreaks like the current pandemic. “However, the failure of protection may be the cause of this and future outbreaks. Land use change is a major driver of disease transmission from wildlife to people. “Species threatened by exploitation and habitat loss are twice as likely to be sources of zoonotic disease compared to other threats. As the biologist Thomas Lovejoy noted, ‘This pandemic is the consequence of our persistent and excessive intrusion in nature and the vast illegal wildlife trade’. “Governments of countries experiencing upticks in deforestation, illegal mining and poaching urgently need to maintain enforcement efforts, even during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Equally important, countries must start planning for rebuilding their economies in a way that fosters green structural transformation, including through long-term commitments to public spending and pricing reforms. “After restrictions are lifted, both governments and development financing institutions should prioritize stimulus efforts that have high economic multiplier effects and that reduce carbon emissions. “A recent study based on input from central bankers and ministries of finance identified several priority policies such as natural climate solutions and the protection of carbon-rich ecosystems like mangroves, tropical forests and peatlands, and rural support for ecosystem restoration. “Such policies are especially beneficial for tropical countries, where land use change is often the major source of carbon emissions. “Such investments would have additional benefits for biodiversity and reduce the risk of zoonotic disease outbreaks, too, thereby addressing an important root cause of the current pandemic. “It is equally important that climate and biodiversity stay at the top of the agenda in 2020 and beyond, and that leaders leverage every opportunity to maintain the momentum”, the report noted. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja A Civil Society Organisation, YIAGA AFRICACentre for Legislative Engagement, Tuesday, charged the National Assembly on the passage of the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill, PIGB, amendment of the 2020 Appropriation Act, subjecting all executive actions in COVID-19, appropriation to increase budgetary allocation to the health sector,… April 28, 2020 In "News" By Rita Corser Understanding the Four-phase approach: Preparatory/Combat/Recovery/Post Pandemic Phases There is a universal acknowledgement that the Covid-19 pandemic presents a herculean global public health challenge not seen since the Spanish Flu Pandemic of 1918. In the case of the disease-causing pathogen responsible for Covid-19, the SARS-CoV-2 virus (Severe Acute… May 22, 2020 In "Viewpoint" THE Senate, yesterday lampooned the power sector following its very epileptic nature, asking the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency, cancel the entire privatization process that was carried out during former President Good luck Jonathan led administration. May 19, 2020 In "News"