The names of the three nominees recommended the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Mr. Abubakar Malami, to President Muhammadu Buhari to pick as a replacement for Ibrahim Magu have emerged. Top on the list is a retired Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Sani Usman, who is believed to have been vetted by President Muhammadu Buhari for the job. Also recommended by Malami for the job, according to an online medium, is the current FCT Police Commissioner, Bala Ciroma, who had previously served as the EFCC Head of Operations, and a retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police, AIG, from Kebbi State. Buhari is said to have also vetted retired DIG Usman and Ms. Diseye Nsirim-Poweigba, a retired police commissioner in Niger State, as replacement for Magu, who has been on the post in acting capacity since November 9, 2015, following the 8th Senate’s rejection of his nomination twice. Malami last week wrote the President recommending Ibrahim Magu’s immediate sack as head of the anti-graft agency over alleged multiple serious offences bordering on diversion of recovered assets, insubordination and misconduct. But the AGF has kept mute on the development, as he neither denies nor confirms sending the memo to Buhari. The Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, appears unperturbed over the move to oust him. carrying on with his job without any qualms. But one way or the other, Buhari will either retain or remove Magu. VANGUARD The Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Mr. Abubakar Malami(SAN) has recommended three persons for President Muhammadu Buhari to pick a replacement for Ibrahim Magu, acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. The three names Malami sent to Buhari in a memo, according to THEWILL,… June 22, 2020 In "News" The whirlwind that has been rocking the inner political circles of President Muhammadu Buhari hit its crescendo on Thursday, December 15, 2016, with the rejection of the confirmation of Ibrahim Magu, an Assistant Police Commissioner, as the substantive Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. That back stabbing… December 18, 2016 In "News" The Nigerian presidency has described as false and misleading media reports that the Attorney General and Justice Minister, Abubakar Malami repudiated Acting President Yemi Osinbajo’s position over the retention of Ibrahim Magu, as acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. July 6, 2017 In "News"