The Federal Government, yesterday, announced  details of its ambitious agricultural programme, which it is undertaking with $1.2 billion loan support from Brazil, saying the project would inject $10 billion into the economy, create five million new jobs and empower no fewer than 35 million Nigerians nutritionally and economically. Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed and his Agriculture counterpart, Alhaji Sabo Nanono, unveiled the details of the agricultural programme at a briefing in Abuja. Mohammed said: “This programme will create 774 service centres nationwide to mechanise our farming methods and process or add value to farm produce locally, leading to efficiency and eliminating post-harvest losses, thereby cutting down cost of food all year round. “Additionally, private sector operators will operate and manage all the service centres and the assembly plants and it will create about five million jobs and inject over $10 billion into the economy within 10 years. “The Green Imperative will revolutionalise agriculture in Nigeria within a 10-year period that it is expected to be implemented. “The stage is now set for an agricultural revolution that will strengthen food security, create massive jobs, transfer technology, revive or reinvigorate many assembly plants, strengthen the economy, save scarce resources, mechanize farming and lead to the emergence of value-added agriculture, among other benefits.” On his part, Nanono explained that unlike other agricultural programmes in the past, which failed, the present administration would ensure the success of the Green Imperative, which he said, would be private sector-driven and devoid of any form of political interference. Nanono said that the project had become imperative to enable Nigeria to mechanically cultivate more of its vast arable land, which has been under cultivated with only 34 million hectares yearly yielding between 1.2 to 1.6 tonnes per hectare but which can be significantly improved with mechanisation as is the case in neighbouring African countries. Vanguard ...To revive 6 motor plants for 50,000 tractors assembling in 6 geopolitical zones ... 632 mech centres to back 774 LGAs production centres, 142 agro-processing centres in Sen districts ...To empower 35 million Nigerians, engage 100,000 extension workers By Soni Daniel The Federal Government on Thursday rolled out details of… June 4, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government through the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed has on Thursday reiterated its promise to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, restated the government’s commitment in Abuja at a media briefing… October 17, 2019 In "News" …says Nigeria to generate 25,000 megawatts of power in 2025 …flaunts improved fund recovery, convictions by anti-graft agencies By Soni Daniel As President Muhammadu Buhari begins the second year of his last tenure, Nigerians are to witness unprecedented boost in agriculture, power generation and a general improvement in major facets… May 30, 2020 In "News"