There was pandemonium at Itigidi, Abi Local Government Area of Cross Rivers state as a popular man of God, and General Overseer of Paul’s Ministries, Prophet Paul Abam, was caught burying charms in someone’s house. Vanguard learnt that the Prophet, who was a Pastor in an orthodox church in Ugep, Yakurr LGA a neighbouring town before leaving to open his own ministry, was caught right in the act as he was trying to bury the charm in his “victims” house. The prophet was paraded around Itigidi, Abi LGA, Cross River in a traditional way to shame him and deter others with such intentions because the act is considered taboo in the area. An eye witness, who pleaded anonymity, said he was caught after being identified by someone who saw and identified him while allegedly burying the charms in the building. The eyewitness said that Pastor Abam popularly known as “Miracle Pastor” was paraded in traditional handcuffs after he was caught in the act. “We apprehended Prophet Paul Abam in his home town Itigidi when he was burying charms in someone’s building and dealt with the matter by parading him in our traditional way to deter others like him,” the witness said. Vanguard News Nigeria. It is strange that Eze Atum Akwara, the Onyerubi I of Abam, a man with powerful friends across Nigeria, died over five years ago, yet Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State is allowing the remains of the first class King, a man, who at a stage was the 4th highest… December 10, 2017 In "Viewpoint" She wanted him to know that she cared for him. She also didn't want anything to stand in their way to the altar and so she worked to make him strong and unwavering. But she feared that if Michael adhered to the advice of some people around him he could… September 21, 2014 In "Special Report" *He said they were his children— Lady Chioma's Pastor By Peter Ofili, Clarybell Charles & Ebere Aham LAGOS—OPERATIVES of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested two suspected child abductors for kidnapping two toddlers, age six and four, in Igando area of Lagos. The suspects, identified as Uche Umerua and… August 19, 2016 In "News"