A US court has upheld a verdict that talcum powder sold by Johnson & Johnson caused ovarian cancer and ordered the pharmaceutical giant to pay $2.1 billion in damages. The decision by the Missouri Court of Appeals cut by more than half the $4.4 billion a jury had awarded 22 people in 2018. The court agreed that some of the plaintiffs should not have been included in the case as they were from outside the state. But the Tuesday decision upheld the awarding of damages for the company “knowingly selling products that contained asbestos to consumers.” “Because defendants are large, multi-billion-dollar corporations, we believe a large amount of punitive damages is necessary to have an effect in this case,” the judgement said. “It is impossible to place monetary value on the physical, mental and emotional anguish plaintiffs suffered because of their injury caused by defendants.” A spokeswoman for Johnson & Johnson said the company would appeal the decision in the Supreme Court of Missouri, according to the Wall Street Journal. Johnson & Johnson has faced thousands of lawsuits across the United States alleging it failed to warn consumers of the risk of cancer from asbestos in its talc-based products. In 2019 a California jury became the latest to award millions in damages to a plaintiff who said the company’s baby powder had given her terminal cancer. Last month the firm announced it was discontinuing production of its talc-based baby powder in the US and Canada, in part due to the “constant barrage of litigation advertising” over the product. It will continue to sell the product in the rest of the world, it added. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. ...company says own research reveals no asbestos Andreas Saldivar, a laboratory expert hired by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) says his findings revealed asbestos in Johnson & Johnson (J&J) Baby powder. Saldivar operates AMA Analytical Services Inc, a private lab in Maryland, United States. He conducted the… October 30, 2019 In "Foreign" This article examines the Supreme Court’s approach to the award of exemplary damages in civil law. As will become evident, the Supreme Court appears to have sanctioned the award of exemplary damages in civil law in exceptional circumstances. April 25, 2013 In "Law & Human Rights" Chevron Corp.’s spokesman for Latin America said last week that the U.S oil giant could have difficulty in reaching a settlement with Ecuadorian plaintiffs in a 19-year-old legal battle over environmental issues. July 17, 2012 In "Energy"