The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, is Chairman of the Steering Committee for the Nigeria Digital Identity for Development Ecosystem project. The committee, inaugurated by the Federal Government, is to fast-track the implementation of the strategic roadmap for accelerating digital identity development for Nigeria. While inaugurating the Committee, Mr. Mustapha, its Chairman, said Digital Identification is central and critical to realising the objective of the Government’s Economic and Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP). He said the Strategic Roadmap, approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) on September 12, 2018, “is a culmination of the enormous collective efforts and contributions of so many institutions and stakeholders, which began in the year 2015 when this government took a decision to forge a credible and cost-effective pathway for identification management.” To accelerate the implementation of the Strategic Roadmap, therefore, “government considered and adopted a three-tiered institutional arrangement comprising a Steering Committee, a Strategic Unit, an Implementation Unit situated in the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), and with responsibilities of providing overall governance and coordination, ecosystem partners’ coordination and communication and day-to-day project implementation respectively.” According to him: “The Project Steering Committee was established as the highest body with the responsibility of providing policy, institutional and operational guidance towards delivering on the identification vision and promise of the Strategic Roadmap. “Members of the Steering Committee were appointed by Mr. President.  You are therefore charged to positively steer the project to accomplish government’s objectives, consolidate efforts to date and deliver goals outlined in the Strategic Roadmap.” Besides the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, as Chairman; Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, is Alternate Chairman/Member; Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (HAGF), Mr. Abubakar Malami(SAN), member; Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, member; Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, member. Others are Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, member; Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami, member; Director-General, National Orientation Agency, Dr. GarbaAbari,Member and the Director-General of NIMC, Engr. Aliyu Aziz, who is member and Secretary. Mr. Mustapha said the work of the Steering Committee shall be guided by the following Terms of Reference as approved by Mr. President: Speaking further, the SGF said the Strategic Roadmap offers “a credible pathway for the government to develop identification at a low cost, fast pace and in a trusted environment. “The task before this Committee is to ensure that Federal Government of Nigeria leverages the existing ecosystem of government agencies, states, and trusted private partners to carry out nationwide enrolment through a viable partnership strategy with an effective public awareness campaign. “As a nation, we have a lot of grounds to cover and our fundamental ID goal can only be reached through joint efforts and coordinated approach. “You would all agree with me that there is no time than now for this project, especially as it would have considerably reduced a number of challenges we are facing with identifying and locating poor and vulnerable Nigerians in effective and efficient distribution of palliatives to cushion the effect of the on-going COVID-19 pandemic. “Of course, without meaning to enumerate the issues associated with the absence of a foundational ID system which you are all familiar with, the existence of a National Identification Number (NIN) for all Nigerians would improve our delivery of Government services.” While giving assurance that the Federal Government is “fully committed to early actualisation of this Project to enhance effective development and efficient delivery of government services,” the SGF added that discussions, contributions, and decisions of the Committee “are expected to help build foundations towards the institutionalisation of a robust and reliable system of identity envisioned to link all functional identities including a digitised civil registration system with the National Identification Number (NIN).” Vanguard The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osibanjo has called on Nigerians to have a unique Identification under the digital identity scheme. January 31, 2018 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has charged African leaders to use National Identity Number, NIN, to enhance democratization process on the continent. April 25, 2018 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has charged African leaders to use National Identity Number, NIN, to enhance democratization process on the continent. April 25, 2018 In "News"