An unidentified woman has been confirmed dead in one of the multiple collapsed buildings on Thursday, which occurred at Unity Close off Adebiyi Street, in Magodo phase 1 as a result of mudslide following persistent rainfall in Lagos. The mudslide was said to have pulled down a fence which in turn collapsed on the neighbouring storey building which reportedly killed the woman in the process. According to the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, LASEMA, Director General, Dr. FemibOke-Osanyontolu, the corpse, an adult female, had been moved to a nearby hospital before the arrival of the rescue team. According to him, “Upon arrival at the scene of the incident, it was discovered that a fence collapsed on a one-story building as a result of mudslide thereby making the entire area vulnerable to more collapse. “Further investigation revealed that an adult female lost her life at the scene of the incident but had been moved to the hospital before the arrival of the LASEMA Response Team. “The LASEMA Response Team, Physical Planning, Lagos State Building Control Agency, LASBCA, and Police were responders at the scene of the incident. “The entire area has been cordoned off by LASEMA Response Team to prevent any secondary incident, while the Commissioner for Physical Planning has directed LABSCA on further action.” vanguard Amid heavy rainfall, mother, sister, two sons, die in Magodo building collapse, another collapses in Ikorodu ..As flood sweeps 11-year-old boy, rescuer to death,  destroys property By Olasunkanmi Akoni Tragedies occurred in Lagos on Saturday following a heavy downpour across the state as mother, her two children and sister died… October 13, 2019 In "News" The Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, has confirmed the collapse of a storey building in Isheri Magodo, Lagos, killing a mother and three children. October 12, 2019 In "News" Tragedy struck, yesterday, after mud detached from a hill at Isheri Magodo area of Ojodu Berger, Lagos, landed on two buildings, caving them inside the earth. November 8, 2015 In "News"