The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Monday said that the elected governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu is no match to any of its aspirants in the coming Edo Gubernatorial election. Disclosing this in a statement obtained by Vanguard, the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan argued that Ize-Iyamu emerged as a candidate through the crudest governorship election primary since the history of Nigeria. He noted that the people of Edo state had written off the APC, and had turned the party into a butt of street joke. Read the statement below: “Already, on the streets of Edo state, Ize-Iyamu has become the new lexicon for APC’s crude attempt to suppress and lord it over the people of Edo state. From all indications, only failure awaits the APC in the September election. This is because, going by the figures announced from the direct primary, which the APC conducted to produce Ize-Iyamu, it is clear that the totality of the members of the APC in Edo is far below 40,000, in a state where the membership and support base of the PDP soar well above three million. Moreover, the people of Edo state had been openly told by Ize-Iyamu’s godfather, Adams Oshiomhole, that he is not fit to occupy the office of the governor of Edo state for reasons he had also put in public space. According to Oshiomhole, Ize-Iyamu is only good for political “night meetings” and not to occupy the highest office in the state, where he will fail. Edo people can also recall how Oshiomhole swore before God and man that people with the character traits of Ize-Iyamu should not be allowed anywhere near a public office like that of a governor. It is therefore nauseating that having degraded Ize-Iyamu across Edo state and beyond, the APC, in their arrogance and disrespect for the leaders and the people Edo, want to foist such an individual on the state through a shambolic primary election. Given the crisis that has destroyed the APC to its tatters, it is difficult to assert that Ize-Iyamu will be their eventual candidate. However, if he managed through, we welcome him to an issue-based campaign, though his godfather, in agreement with us, has since declared that he has nothing to offer.” Vanguard *...as primaries committee releases guidelines By Clifford Ndujihe & Ozioruva Aliu WILL Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu be victorious in today's governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress, APC? This question will be answered by members of the party in the 192 wards of the state. If Ize-Iyamu wins, it will be… June 22, 2020 In "News" PDP in Edo nominates Osagie Ize-Yamu as its flag-bearer in the Sept. 10 Governorship poll in the state with 584 votes June 20, 2016 In "News" One of the major issues I have with the current government in Edo State led by Governor Godwin Obaseki, was the decision to run a non-inclusive government. May 11, 2020 In "News"