THE Chief Nursing Officer of Central Hospital, Agbor, Delta State, Mr. Michael Mordi who was said to have been forcefully removed from the Federal Medical Centre,  FMC, Asaba by seven of his relatives, Monday evening, has opened up, saying he was not suffering from COVID-19. The 53 years old Mordi who spoke to the Vanguard on his mobile telephone line, said he was not forcefully removed from the treatment centre as being speculated by the State Ministry of Health. Insisting that he was not a COVID-19 patient, he lamented that he was forcefully isolated from his family and kept at the FMC for days not that he was sick. Mordi maintained that he was hale and hearty when they picked him to the FMC treatment centre in Asaba on 24th May, adding that he was not exhibiting any symptom of COVID-19 or symptom any ailment for that matter. Lamenting that he was being given 10 different drugs including antibiotics twice daily (morning and evening), he decried that “those drugs were capable of destroying my system. I was not sick of anything before they picked me up. “I thank God that I am still alive even with those drugs they administered on me twice daily. They conducted so many tests on me including X-ray nothing was found.” On the allegation that he was not cooperating with caregivers at the treatment centre,  he said it not true, saying he was taking he medications even though he knew he was not sick. Saying he requested a re-run test at his expense but they refused, Mordi said they also refused to show him the result of his previous test, rather “they asked me to pack my luggage and leave the centre after staying there from 24th May to 1st June”. Vanguard ...says Delta Govt lied By Festus Ahon, Asaba The Chief Nursing Officer of Central Hospital, Agbor, Delta State, Mr Michael Mordi who was said to have been forcefully removed from the Federal Medical Centre, FMC, Asaba by seven of his relatives, Monday evening, has opened up, saying he was not… June 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Festus Ahon APPREHENSION, Monday enveloped Asaba metropolis and its environs as seven men reportedly stormed the Federal Medical Centre,  FMC, Asaba and forcefully moved a 53 years Chief Nursing Officer, Mr Michael Mordi who tested positive for COVID-19 from thehospital. The men, who Vanguard gathered came in two cars,… June 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Perez Brisibe APPREHENSION has enveloped the Ughelli Central hospital after a male patient suspected to have shown symptoms of the COVID-19, was whisked away by his relatives who had rushed him to the hospital for treatment over fears of him being isolated. The hospital is one of the holding centres… April 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"