CAMPAIGNERS in Niger-Delta have urged Minister of Niger -Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio not to back down in his role as a blockade against money-making predators determined to clean out the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. Leader of the activists, who spoke under the auspices of 21st Century Youths of Niger Delta and Agitators with Conscience, 21st CYNDAC’s self-acclaimed “General” Izon Ebi, in a statement, yesterday said, President Muhammadu Buhari’s Democracy Day broadcast was a vote of confidence on both the Minister and NDDC. “We implore Senator Akpabio to continue his role as a bulwark against the onslaught of those economic vampires in the commission. “Mr President spoke on the urgency of the NDDC moving to its permanent accommodation at the soonest possible time and the ongoing forensic audit which he initiated and will soon be concluded. READ ALSO: EFCC investigating top govt officials on COVID-19 funds disbursement ― Magu “He also informed us of the government’s determination to complete the East -West Road as the contractors have been mobilized to site. With this insight, it is pertinent to note that the synergy of the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs and the NDDC is bearing the desired fruit for the Niger Delta and its people. “It is also pertinent to note that the 21st Century Youth clamour for adequate supervision of NDDC by the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs has succeeded to an extent of keeping the economic buccaneers of the commission at bay. “Also, we want to tell  IMC, of NDDC that Mr. President’s speech was a vote of confidence in them as regards their quest to positively position the commission for optimum service delivery. “Therefore, they should not be deterred or intimidated by the activities of their traducers, they should rev up the momentum to bring the much needed succor to the region and its people,” the group added. Vanguard By Emma Amaize AGITATORS in Niger Delta, yesterday, urged Niger Deltans to throw their weight behind the Minister of Niger Delta, Senator Godswill Akpabio and the Interim Management Committee, IMC, of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, led by Prof Keme-Pondei in their bid to turn around the region. The agitators… May 6, 2020 In "News" WHEN the Interim Management Committee, IMC, of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, took over the interventionist agency, few months ago, it won the hearts of the people with the startling sleaze it purportedly uncovered and the undertaking to expose more. December 14, 2019 In "News" WARRI- MILITANTS in Niger Delta were at loggerheads on Monday , over the call to sack the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio and disbanding of the Interim Management Committee, IMC, for the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, which he inaugurated recently. November 4, 2019 In "News"