Philippe Coutinho is aiming to return to the Premier League, according to his agent Kia Joorabchian. Coutinho was a star at Liverpool, yet failed to establish himself at Barcelona following a €145million move in January 2018. The Brazil playmaker subsequently joined Bayern Munich on loan in August 2019 and has scored eight goals in 22 Bundesliga appearances. With Coutinho out injured, it does not seem likely Bayern will be extending his stay after electing not to take up a €120m purchase option, with a host of Premier League clubs, including Tottenham, Arsenal and former side Liverpool, reportedly interested. Joorabchian, who also represents Coutinho’s compatriots David Luiz and Willian, has now confirmed the 27-year-old has set a return to England in his sights. “He has a desire to come back to the Premier League at some point,” Joorabchian told Sky Sports. “It may not happen this year, it may happen this year but we don’t know. We really have not discussed anything for now.” However, Joorabchian insisted talks of Barca putting a £70million (€78m) price tag on Coutinho, or asking for a £9m (€10m) loan fee, are wide of the mark. “I’ve never heard those figures, we’ve never discussed numbers, none of those figures have ever been discussed,” he added. Fotmob Vanguard Philippe Coutinho is not surprised to see former club Liverpool dominate the Premier League but insists he does not "look back" despite enduring a difficult time since leaving Anfield. Coutinho left Liverpool for Barcelona in January 2018 in a move potentially worth €160million (£142m), but, after initially impressing at Camp… February 12, 2020 In "Sports" The Brazil international left Liverpool for Barca in January 2018 in a deal that could rise to £142m and has been linked with a number of Premier League clubs, including Manchester United. Speculation has been rife for a long time that Liverpool could re-sign the Brazilian playmaker, who has… March 31, 2020 In "Sports" Liverpool will receive a further payment from Barcelona after the Spanish giants decided to keep Philippe Coutinho, according to reports. Spanish publication Sport claimed last week that Coutinho is ‘keen’ to come back to England and Chelsea ‘are working on building a team’ to challenge Liverpool and Manchester City.… May 1, 2020 In "Sports"