Governor Nasiru Ahmad El-Rufai of Kaduna state advised the Federal Government to transfer the Ecological Fund to the Ministry of Environment. The governor reasoned that the Ministry had the expertise and national reach to manage the fund for the benefit of the country. El-Rufa’i spoke when the Minister of Environment, Dr Mohammad Mahmood Abubakar presented one million seedlings to Kaduna State, to mark the World Environment Day, at Sir Kashim Ibrahim House. He said that it was only proper for the Ecological Fund to be domiciled with the Ministry of Environment because it  included fighting erosion, deforestation and desert encroachment. ‘’Apart from that, the ministry has the knowledge, technicality and expertise as well as the national reach to better manage the fund and utilise it for the benefit of the entire country,’’ he argued. El Rufai revealed that he headed a committee during the first term of the present administration, which recommended the transfer of the Fund to the Ministry of Environment. According to him, the matter was further tabled before  the National Executive Council(NEC) and a decision was taken on it but the resolution  has not yet been implemented. The governor lamented that Kaduna State has lost a lot of its forest in the last few years before the coming of his administration, adding that the state is being re-forested again. ‘’In the last five years, we have been planting 1.5 million trees every year. Only about 50% of the trees survive, but we have not given up. It is an investment that we are willing to make for our children and grand children,’’ he added. El Rufai promised the minister that Kaduna state will plant the seedlings that he has donated and ‘’90%  of them will survive and we will match the  number of what you have donated to us.’’ ‘’In Kaduna state, when we promise to do something, we always deliver on our promise. We will invite you next year so that you will see what we have done; you will then know that your donation was not in vain,’’ he added. Earlier, the minister said that his ministry had promised five million seedlings to Kaduna state in fulfillment of President Muhammadu Buhari’s pledge to plant 25 million trees across the country. Dr Abubakar said that the ministry decided to commemorate this year’s World Environment Day because of Governor El Rufai’s commitment to environment issues and support to the Ministry of Environment. The Minister promised that the balance of four million trees will be delivered to Kaduna state, adding that the theme of this year’s World Environment Day is ‘’Bio-diversity, time for nature.’’ Vanguard THE National Economic Council, NEC, yesterday, received the Governor Nasir el-Rufai-led Ad-hoc Committee of the Council on Ecological Fund, which has recommended a stringent disbursement criteria to sanitise the management of the fund. July 21, 2017 In "News" Governors yesterday asked the Federal Government to immediately share ecological funds to all the states of the federation . November 9, 2016 In "News" Governor Nasir el-Rufai of of Kaduna State, yesterday, asked former President Goodluck Jonathan to take responsibility for presiding over the skewed distribution of Ecological Funds to only governors elected on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and his friends in other parties. May 31, 2017 In "News"