BENIN CITY – THE All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus in the House of Representatives has adopted Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu as its preferred aspirant for the June 22 primary election. In a joint statement by the six APC members in the Green chamber, they said the resolution was taken after extensive consultation across the state. The statement was signed by Prof Julius Ihonvbere (Owan Federal Constituency), Mr. Johnson Oghuma (Etsako Federal Constituency), Mr. Dennis Idahosa (Ovia Federal Constituency), Mr. Peter Akpatason (Akoko-Edo Federal Constituency) and Mr. Patrick Aisowirien (Orhionmwon/Uhunmwode Federal Constituency). The statement reads: “Furthermore, as members of the party, we hereby restate our full support for the method the party has chosen as their preferred method for the forthcoming primaries in Edo. “In reaching this conclusion, we considered safety, security, and logistics reasons as well as political inclusiveness and compliance to Covid-19 regulations.” The lawmakers commended the party men and women for their resilience and support. A former member of the state house of assembly and Special Adviser to Obaseki on Political Matters (Edo South), Osaigbovo Iyoha has warned that alleged arbitrariness and persistent disregard for the rule of law by Oshiomhole, would cost the party’s fortunes at the forthcoming gubernatorial election in Edo State A meeting called by some leaders of the All Progressives Congress in Edo state on Thursday to have a consensus candidate to face Governor Godwin Obaseki in the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary election ended in a deadlock because, as Saturday Vanguard gathered,  some of the aspirants and their supporters… May 2, 2020 In "News" Following the expiration of the seven-day ultimatum issued to Governor Adams Oshiomhole of Edo State by the group of the All Progressives Congress (APC) loyal to the former Vice Chairman, South- south of the defunct ACN, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, members of the group, last Monday resigned from the APC en-masse. May 11, 2014 In "Politics" Political permutations on the Edo State governorship elections due in September were last night at a feverish pitch as a key timeline in the contest fell due. May 30, 2020 In "News"