Chioma Rowland, fiancée to popular singer Davido has debunked domestic violence rumours making rounds in the media. Chioma who tries to keep a low profile on social media went ahead to call on other ladies to never allow a man lay his hands on them while they keep quiet. In an Instagram post, she wondered where the domestic violence stories emanated from and urged those showing concern to calm their nerves as such has never and will never happen. Read what she wrote below… “I know you guys absolutely love to spread all sorts of rumours and stories for your entertainment and I’ve known from Day 1 what to expect from blogs and the internet especially with myself and family being in the public space. “I have never once come out to respond to any blogger or react to any rumour mongers before as quite frankly it has never been my nature to engage in online battles or pay too much mind to social media. “But I must say I have found quite disturbing the stories of domestic abuse between myself and David and for once feel a need to speak up. Domestic violence and abuse is NO JOKE and not something to ever take lightly. Never has there ever been an incident of abuse in my home. He has never in his life lifted a finger to touch me and I have never so much as even pushed him. “I believe with everything we peddle as human beings whether offline or online, we should have a bit of fear of God more so when speaking on things we know absolutely nothing of. “I’m not sure where in the world such stories have started from, but I want to ensure everyone showing concern whether fake or real, that such has never and will never happen. Further, we do not take such allegations of abuse lightly at all and if such persists then we will be jointly taking up action against the perpetrators of these disgusting rumors. “To the beautiful young ones out there, never ever allow a man to lay his hands on you while you keep quiet. If you were ever to suffer such, ensure you SPEAK UP! With all that is going on in the world right now, we most certainly can not sit around and condone or encourage women to condone such! Love,
Chioma ” The pair got engaged in 2019 and have a son together.   I know you guys absolutely love to spread all sorts of rumours and stories for your entertainment and I've known from Day 1 what to expect from blogs and the internet especially with myself and family being in the public space. I have never once come out to respond to any blogger or react to any rumour mongers before as quite frankly it has never been my nature to engage in online battles or pay too much mind to social media.  But I must say I have found quite disturbing the stories of domestic abuse between myself and David and for once feel a need to speak up. Domestic violence and abuse is NO JOKE and not something to ever take lightly. Never has there ever been an incident of abuse in my home. He has never in his life lifted a finger to touch me and I have never so much as even pushed him. I believe with everything we peddle as human beings whether offline or online, we should have a bit of fear of God more so when speaking on things we know absolutely nothing of. I'm not sure where in the world such stories have started from, but I want to ensure everyone showing concern whether fake or real, that such has never and will never happen. Further, we do not take such allegations of abuse lightly at all and if such persists then we will be jointly taking up action against the perpetrators of these disgusting rumors. To the beautiful young ones out there, never ever allow a man to lay his hands on you while you keep quiet. If you were ever to suffer such, ensure you SPEAK UP! With all that is going on in the world right now, we most certainly can not sit around and condone or encourage women to condone such! Love, Chioma A post shared by  Chef_chi (@thechefchi) on Jun 16, 2020 at 8:49am PDT  VANGUARD  Davido, Wizkid and their senior colleague 9ice are practically on the same pedestal when it comes to their music crafts. January 5, 2020 In "Entertainment" Since Vanguard Ripples  reported that trouble may  be looming for Chioma Rowland, Davido’s girlfriend, as her family is not pleased with her dumping school for Davido, mixed reactions have continued to greet the report that went viral on social media. July 26, 2018 In "Music" Ordinarily, people do not realise that most of the things they consider “natural” or established by some supernatural being, including the subordinate status of women to men, are actually man-made. May 20, 2018 In "Sunday Perspectives"