The Vice Presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in 2019 elections, Mr. Peter Obi, has advised those in authority and policymakers to, while concentrating on how to ameliorate the immediate suffering of the people, look beyond now and plan for after the COVID-19 pandemic. Obi spoke through the Chairman of his COVID-19 Palliative Committee, Profesor Chinyere Okunna, who led other committee members to Mater Misericordae Hospital, Afikpo; Visitation Hospital, Umuchu; Diocesan Hospital, Nnewi, and St. Felix Hospital, Nnewi. The four hospitals received cartons of face masks, drugs, hand sanitisers and hand gloves. During the presentation of the items, Professor Okunna said it was Mr. Peter Obi’s way of identifying with the suffering masses at this time of global distress. She said Obi commended the efforts of hospitals and their personnel that were at the forefront of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Conveying the sentiments of the receiving hospitals, the Manager of Diocesan Hospital, Nnewi, Rev. Canon Emeka Igwilo, thanked Mr. Peter Obi for his continued expression of love for humanity. Noting what he called Obi’s “good and pleasant nature as well as manifest leadership qualities”, he said that those qualities aided  him to succeed as governor of Anambra State and will certainly aid him to succeed in any environment he finds himself. Other members of Obi’s Palliative Committee are former Commissioner for Information, Anambra State, Chief Joe-Martins Uzodike; former Commissioner for Housing Anambra State, Dr. Patrick Obi, and Special Adviser to Peter Obi, Valentine Obienyem. Vanguard A  FORMER governor of Anambra State and the vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the 2019 general elections, Mr. Peter Obi, and some members of the party in the state have donated N125 million to the PDP to cushion the effects of coronavirus. May 17, 2020 In "News" Former Anambra State governor, Peter Obi, PDP Chieftain, Godwin Maduka and other stakeholders in the state has donated a cash sum of N125 million meant for the post lockdown interventions for the Anambra people. May 17, 2020 In "News" Valentine Ozigbo, a Nigerian business mogul and philanthropist, has commended the leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Anambra Chapter, for putting together the sum of N125 million to support vulnerable families affected by the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. On Saturday, PDP leaders led by Peter Obi, the 2019… May 17, 2020 In "News"