Zenith Bank Plc, has emerged as the best bank in Nigeria in the recently released Global Finance Magazine World’s Best Banks Awards 2020. The award, which was published in the May 2020 edition of the Global Finance Magazine, was based on the performances of the banks in their respective regions and countries over the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019. Zenith Bank in statement stated that Global Finance’s “World’s Best Banks Awards” are recognized amongst the world’s most influential banking/finance and corporate professionals as the most coveted and credible awards in the banking industry, with winners chosen in more than 150 countries across Africa, Asia-Pacific, Central & Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, North America and Western Europe. Commenting on the recognition, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive of Zenith Bank, Mr, Ebenezer Onyeagwu said: “This award is a clear demonstration of the bank’s market leadership, occasioned by our superior product offerings, best-in-class service and top-of-the-range technology which create value for our teeming customers.” The statement adds: “Zenith Bank has clearly distinguished itself in the Nigerian financial services industry through superior service quality, unique customer experience and sound financial indices. The bank, with a knack for setting the pace and raising benchmarks, is a clear leader in the digital space with several firsts in the deployment of innovative products, solutions and an assortment of alternative channels that ensure convenience, speed and safety of transactions.” As a testament to its resilience and market leadership, Zenith Bank announced an impressive result for the year ended December 31, 2019, with profit after tax (PAT) of N208.8 billion, achieving the feat as the first Nigerian Bank to cross the N200 billion mark. In the recently released first quarter, Q1 2020 unaudited financial results, the bank also recorded an improved result over the corresponding period in 2019, with gross earnings rising by 6 percent  to N166.8 billion and profit before tax (PAT) growing 3 percent to N58.8 billion. Consistent with this superlative performance and in recognition of its track record of exceptional performance, Zenith Bank was ranked as the Best Commercial Bank in Nigeria 2019 by the World Finance and the Best Digital Bank in Nigeria 2019 by Agusto& Co. The bank was also voted as Bank of the Year and Best Bank in Retail Banking at the 2019 BusinessDay Banks and other Financial Institutions (BAFI) Awards. Most recently, the bank was recognized as the Most Valuable Banking Brand in Nigeria, for the third consecutive year, in the Banker Magazine’s “Top 500 Banking Brands 2020” and the Bank of the Decade (People’s Choice) at the ThisDay Awards 2020. Vanguard Three Nigerian banks out of the 24 banks in the country made the Banker 500 global bank brand ranking 2014. The three banks are First Bank Plc, GTbank Plc and Zenith Bank Plc. February 6, 2014 In "News" ZENITH Bank Plc has been rated Nigeria’s most customer-focused bank by KPMG. In the 2016 edition of the annual banking industry Customer Satisfaction Survey recently released, Zenith topped other Nigerian banks in the Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) with a total of 74.6 points to clinch the prime position in the… July 20, 2016 In "Business" When Jim Ovia, as an undergraduate of Business Administration at the Southern University, Louisiana, United States, fell in love with computer technology, little did he know that the love will make him one of the pioneers of modern banking in Nigeria, the pioneering Chief Executive Officer, and now Chairman of… January 1, 2016 In "News"