National Guard troops will start withdrawing from Washington, U.S. President Donald Trump said Sunday, nearly a week after he deployed federal forces to the capital city. The move comes after several days of sustained peaceful protests in the city against police brutality, a demonstration movement that started in late May with the killing of George Floyd at the hands of police in Minnesota. Protests have spread nationwide and Saturday saw mass demonstrations in major cities around the country, including outside the White House, though the president has been seeking to downplay their significance and size. “I have just given an order for our National Guard to start the process of withdrawing from Washington, D.C., now that everything is under perfect control. “They will be going home, but can quickly return if needed,” Trump said on Twitter. “Far fewer protesters showed up last night than anticipated!” he added. Mayor Muriel Bowser had demanded last week that Trump withdraw the troops from the city, saying incidents of rioting and looting had ended. Under the constitution, Washington is not a state and the federal government has a large amount of sway over the district. Bowser had the area outside the White House renamed Black Lives Matter Plaza, after federal forces there used tear gas against mostly peaceful protesters. Vanguard News Nigeria Breaking with President Donald Trump, Defense Secretary Mark Esper said Wednesday he opposes using military forces for law enforcement in containing current street protests. Esper said the Insurrection Act, which would allow Trump to use active-duty military for law enforcement in containing street protests, should be invoked in the United… June 4, 2020 In "News" American cities erupted in violence and destruction in a seventh straight night of unrest, with several police officers shot or run over, amid boasts and threats from President Donald Trump to send in troops to “dominate the streets.” In New York, nonviolent protests Monday night were punctuated by people smashing… June 3, 2020 In "Foreign" Leaders from the world’s top economies prepared for tough talks with U.S. President Donald Trump on climate change and trade on Friday as a Group of 20 summit got underway in Germany amid the threat of violent protests. July 7, 2017 In "News"