DEPUTY President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, on Sunday, denied insinuations that he asked the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to probe the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio. According to Senator Omo-Agege, a letter said to have emanated from the Clerk of the Senate, acting on his behalf and requesting the Chairman of the anti-graft agency, Mr Ibrahim Magu to investigate the Minister did not come from him. In a statement by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Yomi Odunuga, the Deputy President of the Senate described the document as fake, just as he insisted that he never instructed the Clerk or any other person to contact the EFCC to investigate any individual. Deputy President of the Senate statement read:  “The attention of the Office of the Deputy President of the Senate has been drawn to a letter dated May 7, 2020, purportedly written by the Clerk of the Senate acting on behalf of the Office of Deputy President of the Senate requesting the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate and monitor the Honourable Minister of Niger Delta Affairs and one other. “This Office hereby states that the said letter is false, fake, malicious, mischievous and vexatious. “This Office never instructed the Clerk of the Senate, or in fact any person, to write to or contact the EFCC in relation to any person. “In the light of the foregoing, we wish to urge the public to disregard the fake letter, same being the handiwork of a person or persons with criminal intents.” Vanguard THE Senate said yesterday that it would probe the alleged conviction of Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo Agege, All Progressives Congress, APC, Delta Central by the  State Bar Court of the State of California, Los Angeles, USA in case No. 94-C-14401 in the United States of America, USA. January 28, 2020 In "News" IT was questions time last night as many Nigerians queried the sufficiency and competence of security arrangements in the National Assembly, which made it easy for thugs to enter the hallowed chambers of the Senate and snatch away its symbol of authority, the Mace. April 19, 2018 In "Headlines" By Ochuko Akuopha - Oleh Youth wing of the Urhobo Progress Union, UPU, Worldwide, has called on President Mohammadu Buhari and the National leadership of All Progressives Congress, APC to work out modalities for the inauguration of the Dr. Pius Odubu and Olorogun Bernard Okumagba led Niger Delta Development Commission,… December 18, 2019 In "News"