Senegal’s President, Macky Sall, began a preventative two-week quarantine after coming into contact with a coronavirus case, although the leader has tested negative for the disease, his office said. The West African country has reported more than 6,100 COVID-19 infections and 93 deaths, and a state of emergency in place since March is being slowly lifted. “In line with medical advice on the matter, President Sall has put himself in quarantine for two weeks from Wednesday,” spokesman Seydou Gueye said in a short televised statement. Since the pandemic erupted earlier this year a number of senior political figures worldwide have caught the disease, including British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who was hospitalised and has now recovered. Senegal as at the morning of June 25, recorded 6,129 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Of the infected, ninety-three (93) have lost their lives while 4,072 have recovered from the disease. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Senegal’s President Macky Sall on Saturday ordered all schools and universities closed for the next three weeks and religious festivals cancelled in response to a coronavirus outbreak that has infected 24 people in the past two weeks. Senegal is the first sub-Saharan African country to close its schools, according to… March 15, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Senegal's president has said the country lacks the means to evacuate 12 nationals from the coronavirus-stricken Chinese city of Wuhan. Macky Sall on Monday said even wealthy countries "had a lot of difficulties" evacuating their nationals, local media reported. "This requires logistics that are totally outside of Senegal's reach," he… February 4, 2020 In "News" South Africa repatriated dozens of its citizens from China on Saturday over the coronavirus, the health ministry said, the first such move by a sub-Saharan country as cases across the region continue to rise. The 114 South Africans were working and studying in Wuhan city, which was placed under lockdown… March 15, 2020 In "Foreign"