Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has been described as the legend of democracy day in Nigeria going by his achievements in office so far. The Senior Special Assistant to the Governor, Walter Ozioko who stated this, weekend, said that Governor Ugwuanyi showed leadership by moving round the state inspecting projects on democracy day while others were partying. According to him, it is fascinating and most thrilling that while other leaders in Nigeria see democracy day as a day for enjoyment and partying in different Government lodges in Nigeria, Dr. Ugwuanyi defined the day as a day of celebrating the gains of democracy by moving round the state, inspecting and commissioning projects for the good people of Enugu . READ ALSO: INSECURITY: UPU supports establishment of ‘Operation Delta Hawk’ He said: “What Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi demonstrated is exemplary and should be emulated by other leaders in Nigeria. The workaholic law maker turned Governor is a super leader who has shown by his good works in Enugu state that governance is not about being in power but about the governed getting the dividends of leadership.” Ozioko noted that the most recent development was that an ultra modern hospital would be built in all local governments in the state courtesy of Ugwuanyi’s administration and stated that above all, security of life and properties is assured in Enugu state. Vanguard  In what could be described as a revalidation of their earlier endorsement of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State for a second term in office, the state’s workers and youths had while felicitating with the governor on Nigeria’s 58th Independence Anniversary, reiterated their firm support for his re-election, declaring that… October 14, 2018 In "News" The recent endorsement of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State for a second term in office by the Prelate of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, His Eminence, Dr. Samuel ’Emeka kanu Uche was quite weighty and inspiring. January 27, 2018 In "News" In what could be described as the mother of all endorsements, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Enugu State Chapter, in a recent mega prayer rally tagged "Enugu State is in the Hands of God," prayed for the re-election of Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi in 2019, in appreciation of his good… March 31, 2018 In "Viewpoint"