Super Eagles and Leicester City midfielder, Wilfred Ndidi has attributed his progress in the game to his ability to listen to criticism from his coaches, friends, and wife. The Nigeria international has been in top form since teaming up with the King Power Stadium outfit in 2017 from Belgian side Genk. Ndidi’s stock has risen very high in the Premier League and he is currently regarded as one of the best defensive midfielders in the English top-flight. Reflecting on his success, the Super Eagle praised the people who surround him for their sincere criticism which has helped him to improve on his performances. “My circle of friends is very small, and they are people who are straight in their assertions. Even at Leicester City, the players, the coaches, and the staff are straight with me,” Ndidi told the Super Eagles media team. “That alone is like an encouragement to me; they make me understand life in general and how I am performing. “Kudos also must go to my wife; she is always honest with me as it concerns my game, telling me the right things and I don’t joke with her criticisms because I know she wants me to be a better player and my boss at Leicester too.” Ndidi has made 111 Premier League appearances since his arrival at King Power Stadium and this season he has played 29 times for the Foxes across all competitions. Vanguard Super Eagles and Leicester City midfielder, Wilfred Ndidi, has revealed how his small frame, almost prevented him from being selected for John Obuh's U20 Flying Eagles squad in 2013. The midfield battler who was 16 at the time, would go on to make the final squad due to his talent… May 24, 2020 In "Sports" Wilfred Ndidi has within two short years become a consistent ball winner in the middle of the park for both the Super Eagles and in the Premier League with Leicester City. January 6, 2018 In "News" Super Eagles midfielder, Wilfred Ndidi has stated that playing against top stars like Lionel Messi, Luka Modric and others in Russia 2018 has given him valuable experience. August 22, 2018 In "Sports"