Contrary to the reports that Ifedayo Olarinde a.k.a Daddy Freeze publicly rejects ‘Jesus’ as his ‘personal Lord and Saviour’, claiming that he was created by white men, the popular On Air Personality, has denied ever doing so. The controversial OAP, who’s always throwing shades at churches and their pastors debunked the news in a statement he issued during the week. He described the report as false, pathetic, and an attempt by mischief makers to use his name and image to make headlines. According to Freeze, who’s the leader of #FreeTheSheeple movement, he also runs an online church “This is junk journalism. I don’t have a problem with Christianity or ‘Christ’ as I remain a Christian preacher and teacher. I just have a problem with the word ‘Jesus’ that is only about 400 years old and is a whitewashed Europeanized version of the true saviour Ye’shua” “ My Instagram bio even clearly states Free Nation in Christ, how did you miss out the Christ part? I preach about the real saviour who is the ‘Christ’ and his Hebrew name is Yahushua/Ye’shua so where did I reject Christianity?” A report recently surfaced on the internet, claiming that the controversial OAP, has rejected ‘Jesus’ as his personal Lord and saviour. Vanguard Reggae musician, Majek Fashek has called out controversial On Air Personality (OAP), Ifedayo Olarinde a.k.a Daddy Freeze for his strong disapproval of his recent performance at a church concert in Abuja. December 20, 2017 In "Entertainment" Hip hop singer, Obinna Kelvin Anyanwu, better known as Waconzy in the music industry, has taken a snipe at On-Air-Personality, Ifedayo Olarinde, a.k.a Daddy Freeze, calling him demon, who is out to destroy the body of Christ, which is the church. March 31, 2019 In "Entertainment" For berating reggae maestro, Majek Fashek with reckless abandon on Tuesday, for performing at Commonwealth of Zion Assembly’s Christmas Concert, popular radio presenter, Ifedayo Olarinde, also known as ‘Daddy Freeze, incurred the wrath of Majek’s manager, Omenka Uzoma Day, who threatened  to deal with him if he ever dares to repeat such a… December 23, 2017 In "Entertainment"