President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday, commiserated with victims of Ogbogonogo fire disaster, assuring that they would not bear the burden of the unfortunate incident alone. The President who spoke through the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiyar Umar Farouk, also, commended the proactive measures taken by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to curb the spread of the fire and also, reduce its effects on the traders. Hajiya Umar led a team made of the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Mr. Festus Keyamo to convey the feelings of the President to the Governor of Delta State, Senator (Dr. ) Ifeanyi Okowa at Asaba. “We are here in Delta State at the behest of our President, Mohamadu Buhari who said we should commiserate the traders who lost their products worth millions of naira to the unfortunate fire incident at the Ogbogonogo market, here in Asaba. “The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) is with the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) to assist these hard-working Nigerians whose sources of livelihood were affected by the fire. “We need to let them know that once there is life, there is hope. “Your Excellency, we are also, commending you and your team for the quick response which gave hope to the people and immediately, we got wind about the incident, we sent relief materials too to the State to cushion the effect of the fire on the people,” the President said. Governor Okowa in his response, expressed delight that Mr. President was quick to respond to the fire incident, noting that the creation of the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and Social Development could have made that prompt response possible. The Governor said, “we want to express our gratitude to you and through you (Minister) to our President. “This visit is a thoughtful visit concerning the fire at the Ogbogonogo market. “We have a warm relationship with NEMA and we are supporting the activities of your Ministry as it concerns assisting the needy in society. “As a State government, our youths are participating in different skill acquisition and wealth creation programmes, we have different programmes to support the widows, we also have programmes for the less privileged and the vulnerable. “We appreciate this visit.” The high point of the visit by the Minister was her inspection of the burnt market and presentation of relief materials to the victims. President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday announced the creation of five new Ministries, namely; Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Police Affairs and Ministry of Special Duties and International Affairs. August 21, 2019 In "News" Over 42 ministers were yesterday sworn in as ministers of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by President Muhammadu Buhari. August 22, 2019 In "News" The long-awaited list of the ministerial-designates for the second term in office of President Muhammadu Buhari has been released and former ministers, Rotimi Amaechi, Lai Mohammed, Chris Ngige, Adamu Adamu and a host of others retained their portfolios. This is just as former Lagos State governor, Babatunde Fashola, who had… August 21, 2019 In "News"