As a way to mark the fifth year anniversary of the President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo-led administration, a well-detailed documentary will air on Sunday at 7pm. The documentary, which contains some of the notable strides of the Buhari-Osinbajo tenure since 2015, will go live on network service of selected television stations including Channels TV and NTA. Citizens are enjoined to tune in by 7pm on Sunday to watch these verifiable achievements of the duo. In a related development, President Buhari has lauded the COVID-19 Economic Sustainability Plan submitted recently by Vice-President Osinbajo. The Osinbajo-led Economic Sustainability Committee submitted the report entitled, “Bouncing Back: The Nigerian Economic Sustainability Plan”. The President is expected to approve the recommendations of the report which contains modalities and policies that would strengthen businesses in the country as well as provide jobs for the teeming masses amid the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. The vice-president said: “We are confident that if the proposals are taken as a whole and implemented conscientiously, Nigeria will avert the worst of the impending economic headwinds, and convert this crisis to a victory for the Nigerian economy.” Vanguard Nigerian Vice-President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, will on Thursday, present a post COVID-19 Economic Sustainability Plan to President Muhammadu Buhari. The all-inclusive plan will contain actions and strategies that will help mitigate the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on Nigeria’s economy. Osinbajo’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande,… June 11, 2020 In "News" Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on Thursday 11 June, stated that Nigeria can turn the coronavirus pandemic into an economic victory. Osinbajo stated this at the State House in Abuja after presenting a well prepared post-COVID-19 Economic Recovery Plan to President Muhammadu Buhari. Osinbajo led the Economic Sustainability Committee to submit the… June 11, 2020 In "News" New sustainability plan almost ready Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is enlarging the pool of options open to Nigeria in achieving the Buhari Presidency plan to turn the current economic challenges to an opportunity for Nigerians, especially the "Common Man." Today, the VP has met with representatives of the International Monetary… April 21, 2020 In "News"