As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme, the Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Ms Hadiza Bala Usman, on Wednesday donated some office equipment, computers and accessories to Hon Abike Dabiri–Erewa, Chairman/CEO Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM). Represented by Mr Edward Dauda Kabir, General Manager, Monitoring and Compliance of NPA Abuja Liaison office said the kind gesture was to improve NIDCOM working capacity towards meeting its mandate. Usman said being a responsible corporate organisation, NPA is mindful of the need of sister agency and Commission. Receiving the items, the elated NIDCOM boss, Abike Dabiri Erewa said that with the donation, NPA has made her day. “I have to thank my dear Sister, Hadiza Bala Usman for her thoughtfulness and kindness towards a sister MDAs in need. I am short of words. You have really made my day’’ “This is very good news in the midst of a depressing week. I want to say a big thank you for your hands of fellowship. This goes to show that women do help themselves,” she said. The NIDCOM boss expressed her appreciation to NPA under Ms Hadiza Bala Usman, the First lady of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Hajia Aisha Buhari and the Minister of Finance, Hajia Zainab Ahmed, for their hands of fellowship at the critical moment of the Commission. Items donated were 20 Desktop Computers, 10 Laptops and 2 giant Sharp Photocopying Machines.
In the same vein, the Nigerian Youth in the Diaspora through Dr Dauda Abdullahi of Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation (NIDO) also donated to the commission 100 pieces of hand sanitizers wherein the Chairman of NIDCOM praised the Nigerian Youths in Diaspora for this giant stride. It will be recalled that all the office equipment of NIDCOM were trapped in the office allocated to it at the NCC Annex on February 11, 2020, following a forceful ejection order from the agents of the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami in Abuja. Vanguard ABUJA: Federal Government of Nigeria has set aside July 25th of each year in recognition of the contribution of Nigerians in the Diaspora to national development and to celebrate the Diaspora who have achieved feats in various fields of endeavour. July 23, 2019 In "News" Federal Government of Nigeria has set aside July 25th of each year in recognition of the contribution of Nigerians in the Diaspora to national development and to celebrate the Diaspora who have achieved feats in various fields of endeavor. July 23, 2019 In "News" Ijaw Youth Council Worldwide, IYC, Worldwide, has called on the Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, to peacefully resolve its differences with the management of Nigeria’s oil and gas logistics giant, Intels Nigeria Limited, in the interest of the nation. October 19, 2017 In "News"