China on Monday accused the United States of “selfishness” after President Donald Trump said he would terminate the US relationship with the World Health Organization. Washington and Beijing have clashed repeatedly on different topics and on Friday Trump said he would sever ties with the UN health body, which he had previously accused of being too lenient with China. The WHO’s massive loss of funding from the US comes as the deadly coronavirus — which surfaced in a Chinese province late last year — rages on. “The international community generally disagrees with such US acts of selfishness, evasion of responsibility, and undermining of international cooperation against the epidemic,” said Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian at a regular press briefing on Monday. He added the WHO “cannot possibly serve only one country, and should not follow the will of the country that pays the most to it”. The US has been the WHO’s biggest contributor, but in April Trump suspended funding, accusing it of not doing enough to curb COVID-19’s initial spread and of being too soft on China. While Trump said there was a need for “answers from China on the virus”, Beijing has furiously denied allegations that it downplayed the threat when the pathogen first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year. On Monday, Zhao said “in the face of the epidemic, any suppression or even blackmail of the WHO is a disregard of life, challenge to humanitarianism, and destruction of international cooperation”. He said China would “play its due role as a responsible big country” and support the WHO in taking on a position of leadership in tackling the virus, calling on the international community to unite and increase political support and funding for the body. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Beijing warned Washington Monday of retaliation after the United States President, Donald Trump, announced restrictions on Chinese students in the US in protest against a new national security law in Hong Kong. China also said ongoing unrest in the US highlighted its severe problems of racism and police violence --… June 1, 2020 In "Foreign" China on Friday denied Western suggestions it had covered up the extent of its coronavirus outbreak and rejected US allegations it has an overly cozy relationship with the World Health Organization. Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian acknowledged that the virus's rapid spread had contributed to undercounting that resulted in China… April 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" China said Wednesday it was "seriously concerned" about the US decision to suspend funding for the World Health Organization, and urged Washington to fulfill its obligations during the coronavirus crisis. President Donald Trump on Tuesday accused the Geneva-based body of putting political correctness above life-saving measures as he ordered the… April 15, 2020 In "Foreign"