The Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, PPPRA, has removed the cap on the price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), also known as petrol, giving marketers freedom to fix price of the commodity and sell above the price stipulated by it. The PPPRA, in a document released, yesterday evening, titled, ‘Market Based Pricing Regime for Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) Regulations, 2020,’ stated that, henceforth, the price of PMS would be determined by market forces. In the document signed by its Executive Secretary, Mr. Abdulkadir Saidu, the PPPRA, however, stated that it would continue to monitor trends in the crude oil market and advise the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and oil marketers on the monthly guiding price for the commodity. The PPPRA said, “In exercise of the Powers conferred on it by Sections 7 and 24 at the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (Establishment) Act. No. 8 of 2003, and all other powers enabling it in that behalf, the Petroleum Product Pricing Regulatory Agency (The Agency), with the approval of the President hereby make the following Regulation: “Short title: Market Based Pricing Regime for Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) using the Pricing Template of the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency. “The price cap per litre in respect of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) is removed from the commencement of these Regulations. From the commencement of these Regulations, a market based pricing regime for Premium Motor Saint (PMS) shall take effect. “The Agency shall monitor market trends and advise the NNPC and oil marketing companies on the monthly guiding Market Based Price. “The price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) advised by the Agency shall be guiding retail price at which the product shall be sold across the country. “This regulation may be cited as the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) Market Based Pricing Regime Regulations, 2020, made this 20th day of March, 2020.” The PPPRA, in the explanatory note to the regulation, disclosed that the Regulations seek to complement and enforce the provisions of the PPPRA (Establishment) Act 2003, and to notify the general public of the existence of a Market based Pricing Regime for PMS with effect from March 2020. Vanguard In a move signalling possible deregulation of the downstream sector, the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, PPPRA, yesterday, said that there is the possibility of a new price regime for Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, also known as petrol on April 1, noting that the new N125 per litre pump price… March 20, 2020 In "Business" Following the directive of the Federal Government that it reduce the price of Premium Motor Spirit, also known as petrol, the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, PPPRA, yesterday, announced N125 per litre as the new price of the commodity, effective March 19, 2020. March 18, 2020 In "News" The actual price of Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, also known as petrol, climbed to N205 per litre, according to documents obtained from the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, PPPRA. June 11, 2018 In "News"