President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the Emergency National Executive Council, NEC, meeting of the All Progressives Congress, APC, at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. The meeting is attended by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, the Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege, and the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Idris Wase. Also present as at the time the meeting started were 16 APC Governors, the Acting National Chairman of the party, Chief Victor Giadom, the Deputy National Chairman (North) Lawan Shuaibu, the Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Hassan Dogowa, the Deputy Majority Leader, Peterson Akpatason and the Deputy Majority Whip, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha. The 16 Governors physically present are, Hope Uzodinma (Imo), Engr. Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa), Niger (Abubakar Bello), Mohammed Badaru (Jigawa), Mai Malla Buni (Yobe), Simon Lalong (Plateau), Yahaya Bello (Kogi), Mohammad Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe), Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Abdulhahman Abdulrazak (Kwara), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Nasir el-Rufai (Kaduna), and Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti). Senators Abdullahi Sabi and Ajayi Borofice are also physically present. vanguard PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari last night on met behind closed doors with the leadership of the National Assembly July 11, 2019 In "News" The first meeting of the National Executive Committee, NEC, of the ruling party since its decisive election victory should have been a celebration. That celebration is enveloped in a crisis its adversaries had foretold July 3, 2015 In "News" ...Pro Oshiomhole group also present By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja Acting National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Chief Victor Giadom, and the National Deputy Chairman, Lawal Shuaibu are among the party members that have arrived the Presidential Villa, for the APC Emergency National Executive Council, NEC meeting. Also… June 25, 2020 In "News"