The Online Publishers Association of Nigeria, OPAN, has applauded the judiciary for the award of 15 million naira damages against the Nigeria Police for the arrest and detention of Daniel and Timothy Elombah in January 2018. The Police had arrested and detained the online journalists and particularly detained Tim Elombah from 05:00am of January 1 to around 03.00pm of January 25, 2018, on the instruction of the former Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris Kpotum. Elombah brothers thereafter filed separate actions against the Nigeria Police and the IGP for violations of their human rights. The High Court of the Federal Capital Territory [FCT] sitting at Wuse, Zone II, Abuja, on Wednesday, June 3, 2020 upheld the human rights violation suit filed by Tim Elombah, and slammed ten million Naira damages against the Nigeria Police Force. Recall that on April 23, 2018, the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory sitting at Jabi, Abuja, in a judgment, delivered by Justice Jude Okeke, in the matter of application by Daniel Elombah, and others had awarded 5 million naira damages against the Police for violation of the applicants’ rights to personal dignity and liberty as guaranteed by the Constitution. OPAN in a statement issued after the Wednesday judgement and signed by its president, Austyn Ogannah commended Justice Ajoke Adepoju and Justice Jude Okeke for standing on the right side of history and urged the public to challenge violations of their rights by the Nigerian Police. The statement read: “The decisions of the FCT Courts have shown that there is hope for the common man in the country where the Police continually violates people’s right without being sanctioned. “We implore Police to continually respect individual rights, freedom of expression and press freedom as guaranteed in the Nigerian constitution”, the statement concluded. Vanguard THE Online Publishers Association of Nigeria, OPAN, has expressed concern over claims by the Nigeria Police Force that two of its members conspired to commit terrorism offences and cyber crime for approving an opinion article on their website which the police described as uncomplimentary and offensive. March 1, 2018 In "News" -A coalition of Nigerian professionals both within and abroad, under the aegis of The Nigerian Roundtable Coalition, has condemned in strongest terms last week's arrest of Timothy Elombah, publisher of elombah.com, an online publication,and his brother, Daniel, by some operatives of the controversial Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, of the Nigeria Police… January 8, 2018 In "News" A FEDERAL High Court sitting in Abuja has awarded N5 million against the Nigeria Police Force for the arrest and detention of two journalists, Messrs. Daniel Elombah and Izuchukwu Elombah. April 23, 2018 In "Law & Human Rights"