The US Justice Department sued a Chinese company for selling nearly a half million fake and substandard N95 respirator to US buyers in April as the COVID-19 pandemic swept the country. In a complaint filed in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, the department said Guangdong-based King Year Packaging and Printing shipped three batches of purported N95 masks, needed to protect medical and other personnel from the coronavirus, to US buyers. The company falsely claimed the 495,200 masks it shipped were met the N95 standard and also falsely claimed they were certified by the US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), according to the complaint. The complaint indicated the importer of the fake N95 masks paid more than $1 million for them. “The charges alleged in this complaint show a blatant disregard for the safety of American citizens,” FBI agent Douglas Korneski, who investigated the masks deal, said in a statement. “Had it not been for the actions of the investigative team, this defendant would have put first responders, hospital employees, and other front line workers directly in harm’s way with faulty equipment just to make a buck.” The Chinese company was charged with four counts of importing misbranded and substandard health products and making false to the US Food and Drug Administration. Each charge carries a maximum fine of $500,000, or if greater, twice what the company earned in selling the masks. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. An ousted US health official warned Congress on Thursday that President, Donald Trump's administration has no "master plan" to fight the coronavirus pandemic and is unprepared to distribute enough vaccines to immunize millions of Americans. Rick Bright told a House panel that without clear planning and an improved coordinated response,… May 14, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" China won’t restrict exports of medical goods needed to fight the coronavirus pandemic, a government spokesman said Thursday, amid global tension over scarce masks and ventilators. China, the biggest maker of surgical masks and other products, announced last week it would start inspecting exports to make sure they meet quality… April 16, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Nigerian Infectious Diseases Society (NIDS), has advocated for people to wear alternative face mask to prevent Coronavirus spread while preserving the N95 mask for frontline workers. April 20, 2020 In "News"