BENIN CITY – THE Edo state government Thursday said 11 more COVID-19 patients have fully recovered and discharged after they tested negative for the virus. The state governor, Godwin Obaseki disclosed that the state recorded one more COVID-19 related death, noting that the elderly are most affected by the virus. According to him, “We have discharged 11 more COVID-19 patients from the state’s isolation centres, bringing the number of recoveries to 253. However, we recorded one (1) more death. Our elderly population is most vulnerable and must be protected in this period. Please stay safe”. Meanwhile, Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, said the state was making steady progress in the management of the pandemic, reassuring that the Obaseki-led administration remains committed to containing the pandemic and protecting Edo people. Okundia added that the remaining 532 active cases are being managed at various isolation facilities in the state and are responding well to treatment. The commissioner said the state has so far recorded 817 confirmed cases, 5647 suspected cases and is contact-tracing 2441 persons, while 2165 suspected other cases, including 1819 line-listed contacts and 346 persons of interest (POIs) have been exited after the compulsory 14-day follow up. He added, “While the state government intensifies efforts to protect Edo people from this deadly disease, we urge all citizens to stay at home and observe all precautionary measures against the spread of the infectious disease, including regular handwashing with soap under running water and the use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Cover your mouth and nose properly when sneezing and/or coughing.” Vanguard Nigeria News The Edo State Government has announced the recovery and discharge of 13 more coronavirus (COVID-19) patients, who have tested negative for the virus and cleared from the state’s isolation facilities. The state also recorded 14 new confirmed cases and five COVID-19 related deaths at the Stella Obasanjo Hospital Isolation Centre… June 8, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Govt insists on social distancing, adherence to guidelines, others The Edo State Government has announced two new deaths resulting from coronavirus (COVID-19) complications and the discharge of 16 more patients, who have tested negative to the virus and cleared from the state’s isolation centres. The state also recorded 28 new… June 13, 2020 In "News" As govt reiterates call to protect the elderly With the number of coronavirus (COVID-19) related deaths in Edo State climbing to 31, the government has reiterated the need for residents to comply with all health and safety precautions to check the spread of the virus in order to protect the… June 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"