BENIN CITY – THE Federal High Court sitting in Benin City yesterday adjourned ruling to July 6 to decide either to hand-off case or to go on with the case on the direct mode of primary adopted by the National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the nomination of the party’s governorship candidate. The presiding judge, Justice Mohammed Umar, adjourned the suit filed by the factional state deputy chairman of the party, Pastor Kenneth Asekomhe, and one of the governorship aspirants of the party, Matthew Iduoriyekemwen, challenging the decision of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) to adopt direct primary election for the nomination of its governorship candidate. At the resumed hearing yesterday, Counsel to the 2nd Defendant, Roland Otaru, SAN, said he was not satisfied with the ruling of the Appeal Court of the 18th of June and has decided to approach the Supreme Court for further interpretations. He told the court: “What happened in court today is that I filed an application for the stay of further proceedings predetermination of my appeal against the decision of the Court of Appeal which was delivered on the 18 of June 2020 to the Supreme Court. “We are entitled to do that under the Constitution. We are entitled to do that under the rule of court. So, I am fortified to have filed the application having regard to the relevant laws. “We are appealing against it because my appeal was struck out at the Court of Appeal because they said I appealed in respect of the substantive matter.
‎ “I now said I was dissatisfied with that judgment because what I appealed upon was the issue of jurisdiction. “Basically, it is an issue of jurisdiction which is in relation to the internal or domestic affairs of a political party. Because how can a plaintiff be asking the court to direct the mode of primary to be conducted by a party and the Court of Appeal said we appealed in the respect of the substantive matter but I then said having regard to the decision of the superior court, they can even decide the matter at that level. “So, they struck out my appeal but my client has the right to appeal to the Supreme Court”, he said On his part, Counsel to the plaintiff, Ken Mozia, SAN, said since both parties could not reach agreement on the matter, they all agreed that the matter should be adjourned. Recall that the Court of Appeal on June 18, set aside the lower court order restraining APC from conducting the primary and returned the parties to the High Court for the commencement of the substantive suit. By Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City The Federal High Court sitting in Benin City on Monday adjourned hearing on an exparte motion that wants to restrain the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress and the party's National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, from using direct primaries to elect… June 8, 2020 In "Politics" BENIN —Confusion and drama reigned supreme, yesterday, in Edo, as Governor Godwin Obaseki and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s camps of the All Progressives Congress, APC, battled for a vantage position to pluck the party’s governorship ticket at the Federal High Court, Benin. June 9, 2020 In "News" The national leadership of APC yesterday set up a committee to screen its six governorship aspirants in Edo State, saying without prejudice to the work of the committee and that of the Screening Appeals Panel, the National Working Committee, NWC, has the final say on the fate of the aspirants. June 10, 2020 In "News"