Rainstorm in the early hours of Wednesday destroyed scores of private homes, worship centres, schools and other property worth millions of naira in communities in Kanke local government area of Plateau state. Families in the affected communities were rendered homeless as the rain which started on Tuesday night, accompanied with heavy wind lasted till the early hours of Wednesday morning blowing off rooftops of buildings. “This recent downpour has caused a devastating effect on dwellers as the storm removed the roofs of buildings. The havoc caused by the rainstorm needs urgent attention from the Plateau State government as well as spirited individuals and organisations in order to ensure that those displaced can return to their various homes as early as possible. In Amper Town, a Private Secondary School was also brought down by the wind,” a resident, Bitrus Titus said. Chairman of the Council, Emmanuel Lar who had gone for an assessment of the level of damages in the affected communities confirmed the development, praying God to give “the people directly affected the heart to accept the challenges at this difficult moment.” Lar described the situation as “devastating” and called on State Emergency Management Agency, SEMA, and National Emergency Management Agency, NEMA and spirited individuals to come to the aid of the people. Though no life was lost in the incident, Vanguard gathered that the victims are really distressed, taking shelter with lucky neighbours, families and friends whose buildings were not affected and are appealing for assistance from government and spirited individuals to enable them to get back on their feet. Vanguard IN one of his numerous hit albums,  Expensive Shit, released in 1975, late Afro-Beat King, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, sang that water had no enemy. In a long melodious and soul-stirring lyrics, Fela justified why water has no enemy. Till the date, and 43 years after, the song has remained evergreen. August 11, 2018 In "Just Human" AN early morning rainstorm, which began at about 7.10 am, yesterday, wreaked havoc in several parts of Lagos, killing 15 persons, destroying many houses, cars, electric poles and uprooting many trees. February 14, 2012 In "Headlines" SAPELE—HundredS of Sapele residents in Delta State, were, Wednesday night, rendered homeless as the ancient town was ravaged by a heavy rainstorm. November 17, 2017 In "News"