  COC Beauty School has successfully launched its anticipated beauty and lifestyle magazine, COC Beauty. The virtual launch event was hosted by beauty enthusiast and Big Brother Nigeria alum, Anto Lecky lives on a fashion blog, Style Vitae’s Instagram page on the 6th of June,2020. Editor-in-Chief at COC Beauty, Ayo Bassey, said the magazine was prompted by the success of its beauty content and the need to create a resource for beauty product enthusiasts to get the most trusted information. “We’ve been working on COC Beauty Magazine since November 2019, and it’s been a fun ride all the way,” she said. “With the magazine, we hope to create a source for quality information, trends, and more. We aim to achieve a great community of like minds with which we can share industry secrets, ideas, and more through the magazine. A community that we can inspire to think outside of the box so they are empowered to do more.” “The cosmetic product formulation industry is one that is a fast-growing, yet overlooked. The magazine is also a platform to celebrate our beauty school graduates who are making great strides, putting the knowledge acquired to work with results to show. Most importantly, we plan to raise a standard for the beauty and cosmetics formulation industry.” “We are delighted to be able to host the launch of the magazine at Style Vitae, seeing as it aligns with what we do as a fashion & lifestyle brand,” said Noble Igwe, renowned influencer& creative director of Style Vitae. “COC Beauty Magazine is a collector’s item and when I was first introduced to it, I didn’t know it was going to act as a reference for most of daily lifestyle decisions.” According to the organizers, the COC Beauty Magazine launch was a networking mixer with fun activities and chats planned over the 1 hour. The event saw people connect from across Africa, and all over the world. COC Beauty School is set to officially launch their anticipated beauty and lifestyle magazine, COC Beauty. The virtual launch event will be hosted by beauty enthusiast and Big Brother Nigeria alum, Anto Lecky and will hold live on fashion blog, Style Vitae’s Instagram page on  June 6,2020. June 2, 2020 In "News" The cosmetics sector in Sub-Saharan Africa is expected to grow in the next two years. Overall, the African beauty and personal care market was estimated at €6.93 billion in 2012 and it currently increases between 8% and 10% per year against a global market growth rate of close to 4%. August 24, 2019 In "Business" Top actress and entrepreneur, Beverly Naya,   said all is set to premiere her documentary on colourism titled “Skin”, today, which focuses and identifies beauty in all complexion shades especially black. March 31, 2019 In "Entertainment"