With the promise of exciting new rap sound and culture, rising music star, QD, who is fondly known as Egun Agba, has announced the release of his long-awaited studio EP, ‘Ghetto gospel’. QD who has already caught attention of all and sundry in the industry with his debut eponymous EP continues to push through to the front seat of hit makers in the Nigerian music industry with his latest compilation. Born Adeosi Quddus, QD has got fans anticipating his latest EP as he worked with some of the most dexterous music mixers and producers on what is set to be an exciting bundle of not less than seven tunes from the rapper. With the album scheduled to drop this month, the video of a single from the EP, ‘The street’, is already making rounds on many music platforms on the continent and fans are already lauding how QD unites rap with social happenings to produce addictive relatable music which makes fans long for more. Speaking on the forthcoming EP release, the music act who is signed to his own label and movement, CMM, disclosed that he got inspiration from the recent societal life-changing happenings. “These new songs are inspired by some great life-changing events in my life, including the Lagos hustle, the coronavirus pandemic and months-long stay indoors during the outbreak of COVID-19. While each song varies in tone, they all are originals and circle back to one universal theme. ‘Ghetto Gospel’ is rap music and a catchy collection of reminders that love, grind, street woke, and unity can co-exist in our modern world,” QD added. Some tracks on the EP include: ‘Owo, ‘This is me’, ‘The street’, ‘Vanity’ and ‘Is Jesus black or white’. VANGUARD By Ayo Onikoyi As the music industry keeps expanding and welcoming new acts that would stop at nothing to have their names and sounds registered on the minds of music lovers within and beyond the shores of Africa, one music artiste who is currently making waves by always putting his… April 25, 2020 In "Entertainment" Influential music producer, Krizbeatz and his protege, one of the country’s fastest rappers, Ceeboi, is back with another joint work that would wow their fans again. It has been a long time dream for the duo, who have worked tirelessly to   come up with the new projects. December 21, 2018 In "Entertainment" Fast-rising Nigerian singer/rapper, Olotu Adebayo, popularly known as BYTunes (Bayo Tunes), has released his latest single entitled, We Rise Up. Produced by the award-winning Fliptycebeat and music video directed by Aaron Items, the University of Benin political science graduate, in 2018, released his first Extended play (EP) project titled, Sweet… May 12, 2020 In "Entertainment"