ABUJA- THE Presidency last night described the Northern Elders Forum, NEF, as a mere irritant and featherweight group without credible membership. The Presidency in a statement issued by Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina, likened NEF to a General without troops. The Northern Elders Forum had earlier in a statement yesterday signed by its Convener, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, alleged that the insecurity in some northern states of the country was an indication that President Muhammadu Buhari and the governors of those states have lost control over the protection of the people which is a constitutional duty. Reacting to the statement, the Presidency said, “We are not surprised by this latest statement by Prof. Abdullahi, and our past position on what his group represents remains unchanged: a mere irritant and featherweight. “The former vice-chancellor signed the statement under the banner of the Northern Elders Forum (NEF). Hearing that title, you would think the body was a conglomeration of true elders. “But the truth is that NEF is just Ango Abdullahi, and Ango Abdullahi is NEF. It is a quasi-organization that boasts of no credible membership, and its leader is akin to a General without troops. “Before the 2019 presidential election, the one-man army called NEF had shown its antipathy against President Buhari and its preference for another candidate. “They all got beaten together.
NEF is merely waving a flag that is at half-mast. President Buhari steadily and steadfastly focuses on the task of retooling Nigeria, and discerning Nigerians know the true state of the nation. They don’t need a paper tiger to tell them anything.” Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru THE Presidency on Sunday berated the Northern Elders Forum, NEF, saying that it does not have any credible membership. The Presidency in a statement signed by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina described the association as a one-man show that… February 10, 2020 In "Politics" Angry words flowed yesterday as regional socio-political groups yesterday blasted the Northern Elders Forum, NEF,  and Coalition of Northern Groups for calling on Fulani herdsmen to leave the southern part of the country and return to the north. July 18, 2019 In "Headlines" The Northern Elders Forum (NEF) on Sunday has passed a vote of no confidence in the Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari. NEF at a press conference on the state of the nation held in Zaria stated that the president had failed to secure and pilot the affairs of the Nigerian nation.… February 10, 2020 In "News"