An internally displaced woman, Mrs Madubike Promise, has been delivered of a baby boy at Igando Relief Camp, Lagos just as the state government had concluded plans to close the camp by the end of June. The baby was delivered weekend after the mother presented herself at the Camp’s clinic the previous day and was subsequently taken to the Alimosho General Hospital where she was eventually delivered of a baby boy at about 6:40 a.m Promise and her husband Reuben were among the 300 displaced victims of Abule-Egba/Oke- Odo pipeline explosion of Monday, January 26, 2020. The victims comprising children, women and men were thereafter taken to the relief camp to cushion the effects of the disaster. They will all be reintegrated back to the society by the end of June. As at Monday, both mother and child were said to be responding to treatment. Promise and Reuben were said to be full of appreciation to God for the safe delivery of their baby. The Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency LASEMA, Dr. Femi Oke -Osanyintolu who confirmed the development to Vanguard said both mother and child are responding to treatment and will be discharged soon from the Alimosho General Hospital and ferried back to Igando relief camp for continued care by the State Government till their reintegrated into the society. He said LASEMA will take charge of the welfare and basic needs of mother and child on behalf of the Governor Babajide Olushola Sanwo-Olu led administration. Vanguard News Nigeria By Olasunkanmi Akoni There was celebration on Sunday when 26-year-old Mrs. Madubike Promise put to bed at Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, LASEMA's Igando relief camp. Promise is one of the internally-displaced persons, IDPs, in the Abule-Egba pipeline explosion that occurred earlier in the year. ALSO READ: Sanwo-Olu makes case… June 8, 2020 In "News" One of the flood vic-tims in Kogi State, Mrs. Racheal Adesopo has delivered a baby girl in one of the relief Camps set up for the Internally Displaced Persons in Lokoja, the State Capital. October 5, 2012 In "News" Three women who were displaced by flood, Tuesday, gave birth to three bouncing baby boys at the Samson Siasia Stadium, one of the many relief camps in Yenagoa the Bayelsa State capital. October 30, 2012 In "News"