Hauwa Suleiman, wife of a driver in Zaria, Kaduna state, who had earlier given birth to triplets twice, twins twice, single baby thrice, today gave birth to quadruplets. The mother of the 34 year old Hauwa Suleiman, Saudatu Haruna had said that such birth was hereditary in their lineage. “We got it from our grandparents, I also gave birth to 3 sets of twins,” she had said. A Consultant in the Pediatrics Unit of  Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, ABUTH in  Shika ,Dr. Isa Abdulkadir had said that the quadruplets were in good condition and taken care of . Before the quadruplets, Hauwa Suleiman had other children. She gave birth to the quadruplets on Friday 5th June 2020 at the Gambo Sawaba General Hospital in Zaria. After, it was advised that mother and babies be transferred to the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, ABUTH, Shika along the Funtua road. Malam Suleiman, father of the quadruplets, thanked Almighty Allah for the development. Suleiman, who is a driver by profession, said his wife had earlier given birth to triplets twice, twins twice, single baby thrice and now the quadruplets. “My elder brother has been helpful he assists us in taking care of the children,” he said. Vanguard By ibrahim Hassan - Wuyo Hauwa Suleiman, wife of a driver in Zaria Kaduna State, gave birth to quadruplets at a pubic hospital in the ancient city. The mother of the 34-year-old Hauwa Suleiman, Saudatu Haruna had said that such birth was hereditary in their lineage. "We got it from… June 10, 2020 In "Metro" For most couples, the birth of a baby elicits joy. For some, the birth of twins or more elicits even greater joy and gratitude but when a woman is safely delivered of quadruplets (four babies) or quintuplets (five), her joy is supposed to be boundless. December 21, 2011 In "Health" ...Flood has washed away my farmland BAuchi—IT was a tale of two homes, Wednesday, in Bauchi when the wife of a peasant farmer gave birth to quadruplets at home with help from a traditional midwife, while that of a lawmaker was delivered of triplets through a N250,000-gulping cesarean section. September 27, 2012 In "Metro"