La Liga have said they will launch criminal proceedings against the pitch invader who ran on during Barcelona’s match against Real Mallorca on Saturday, which was supposed to be behind closed doors. In the 52nd minute of Barca’s 4-0 win at Son Moix, a man wearing an Argentina shirt with Lionel Messi’s name on the back entered the pitch and posed for a picture on his phone near Jordi Alba. He was not wearing either a mask or gloves and was chased before being caught and escorted away by security. La Liga has imposed strict a medical protocol for matches, which resumed in the top flight on Thursday with Sevilla’s victory over Real Betis. Fewer than 300 people are allowed into stadiums and games are closed to the public. “La Liga will file criminal actions against the invader who entered the pitch without permission and broke the protocols established in current health legislation and disobeyed the orders of private security personnel,” a statement from the league said. “His actions constitute a crime.” It added: “La Liga wants to express its absolute condemnation of this type of conduct that jeopardises the health of others and the integrity of the competition.” VANGUARD Lionel Messi broke yet another record by hitting his 35th La Liga hat-trick on Saturday as Barcelona thrashed Real Mallorca 5-2 to keep pace with Real Madrid at the top of the table. A trio of vintage Messi finishes contributed to five stunning Barca goals, the best of them arguably… December 8, 2019 In "News" Real Madrid’s unbeaten start to the La Liga season came to an abrupt and surprising end as Real Mallorca claimed a stunning 1-0 victory at a rocking Son Moix on Saturday to climb out of the relegation zone. The Balearic Islanders had only managed six goals in their opening eight… October 20, 2019 In "News" Lionel Messi scored twice as Barcelona beat Las Palmas 3-0 in a match played behind closed doors after the Spanish league refused Barca's plea to postpone the game on the day of the highly-charged Catalonia referendum. October 1, 2017 In "News"