As part of measures to cushion the economic impact of the Coronavirus pandemic in the state, the Niger State Government has approved the reduction of Tax payment in the state. This was stated in a Statewide Broadcast by the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Ibrahim Ahmed Matene on behalf of Governor Abubakar Sani Bello. The Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Ibrahim Matene said the Tax reduction takes effect from the 24th of June, 2020 to 31st March, 2021. He said the filing date of annual tax returns by all businesses and individuals has been extended to 30th September 2020 while the filling of monthly PAYE returns by businesses has been granted 10 days extension beginning from the 10th to 20th of every month. He also stated that the penalties and interests on late filings, payments, and remittances as well as default on Tax liabilities have been reviewed downward to 5% percent for penalties and 10% percent for interest charges. He further said Government has granted 50 %percent reductions on all the rates as contained in the Harmonized Agricultural Produce and Livestock Fees Collection Regulation Act 2019. Payments in four (4) installments have been granted to all Taxpayers in the Small Medium Enterprises SMEs and the Informal sector. He assured that all the Agencies responsible for the collection of Tax have been notified on the development, hence anyone shortchanges should forward their complaints to the office of the Secretary to the state government. He however urged the general public to continue to adhere strictly to all COVID-19 protocols by the State Taskforce on COVID-19. Vanguard By Ismail Bello SINCE the Spanish flu of 1918, nothing has distorted the global socio-economic landscape more than the COVID-19 pandemic. With the exception of a few countries, the entire world has been in a state of lockdown since March 2020. Factories, airports, hotels, schools, railway stations, worship centres, motor… June 22, 2020 In "Viewpoint" Federal lawmakers from Kano state have followed suit by donating over N22 million to provide succour for the downtrodden in the state to cushion the effect of the lockdown measures put in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus pandemic. March 31, 2020 In "News" There can be no doubt that Covid-19 is having a phenomenal impact on the world economy - as a result, governments across the world are grappling with Covid-19 pandemic effects. In Nigeria, the presidency recently announced a two-week lockdown of the country, as part of the policy measure to contain… April 11, 2020 In "News"