Prime Minister Boris Johnson has been involved in a car crash outside Parliament. Boris Johnson was in a car leaving via the gates of the Palace of Westminster and onto Parliament Square in Westminster when a protester ran out into the road to attack the Prime Minister’s convoy. The driver of the car was seen to hit the brakes suddenly to avoid the demonstrator, causing the security detail in a Range Rover following behind to crash into the back of the first vehicle. Both cars left the scene quickly with a visible dent in the back of the Prime Minister’s Jaguar. Photographs from at the scene show a man being tackled to the ground and detained by several police officers. The demonstrator was taken into the Palace of Westminster and the Met Police later confirmed they had arrested a man for offences under Section 5 of the Public Order Act and for obstructing the highway. Downing Street has said there are no reports of any injuries, and a spokesman said a protester was detained after running in front of the silver Jaguar. A Number 10 spokesman confirmed the car was Mr Boris Johnson’s, adding: “I think the video speaks for itself as to what happened. No reports of anybody being injured.” The spokesman said Mr Boris Johnson was travelling in the car at the time. At approximately 2.30 pm today, June 17, two police vehicles were involved in a collision in Parliament Square. The police vehicles were part of a security movement. A pedestrian is reported to have stepped onto the road, causing the vehicles to suddenly stop, which has led to two of the vehicles in the convoy being involved in a damage-only collision. No injuries have been reported. A man, no further details at this time, was arrested at the scene for offences under Section 5 of the Public Order Act and for obstructing the highway. All vehicles were able to drive from the scene, Telegraph reported. Vanguard After a bruising week, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson entered the warm embrace of his Conservative party's annual conference on Sunday vowing to "get Brexit done". September 29, 2019 In "News" The UK Prime Minister, Theresa May was on Wednesday bundled out of the parliament into a car and taken off the scene as an assailant shot at the parliament after ploughing a car into pedestrians before stabbing a police officer outside the Palace of Westminster. March 22, 2017 In "News" Hundreds of people blocked London’s normally busy Whitehall road on Saturday to protest Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s suspension of the British parliament. August 31, 2019 In "News"