Tragedies accompanied a downpour in Lagos, yesterday, when a four-year-old girl, identified as Azeezat, was reportedly swept away by flood. This came as a pregnant woman and one other were rescued, while scores sustained injuries in separate collapsed building incidents in the state. The torrential rainf, yesterday, also paralysed business activities across the state as most parts were left flooded resulting in terrible gridlock. As a result of the high volume of the flood, many vehicles broke down, causing gridlock across the state. Commuters and motorists were stuck in the traffic for hours in areas such as Ikeja, Agege, Egbeda, Oworonsoki, Lagos-Badagry Expressway, Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, Mile-2 area, Apple Junction, Amuwo-Odofin, Okota Road, Victoria Island, among others. Azeezat was reportedly swept away by flood at 38, Fashola Street, off Olabode Street, Papa Asafa in Orile-Agege, while the women were rescued  at 26 Railway line, Ashade Quarters, behind Guinness, where four buildings collapsed as a result of the downpour. Also, scores were injured in another building collapse at 3, Sadiku Street, Alagba, Iyana-Ipaja area of the state. Meanwhile, two women survived the building collapse at Ashade Quarters behind Guinness. Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency. LASEMA, Dr Oluwafemi Oke-Osanyimtolu, and National Emergency Management Agency, NEMA, Lagos Coordinator, Ibrahim Farinloye, who confirmed the incidents, said search and rescue operation had commenced. Flood sweeps away 4-year-old girl It was gathered that Azeezat was living with her parents at the said address but when their house was overtaken by flood and in an effort to relocate to higher ground with other residents, Azeezat mistakenly missed her step and fell into drainage channel covered with floodwater, which swept her away. The incident threw the entire area into pandemonium as sympathisers joined in the search mission to recover the child but all to no avail. Vanguard gathered that the floodwater from Fashola Street runs through Aboru, Iyana Ipaja, Command to Ota in Ogun State and ends up at Agbara where the canal discharges into the sea. Pregnant woman, one other rescued as buildings collapse in Lagos Also, 18 households at 18, Railway Line, Ashade Quarter, Agege, have been advised to relocate from the area for their safety as the downpour had weakened the buildings. Though, the occupants of the buildings have expressed readiness to vacate. Similarly, at 3 Sadiku Street, Alagba, Iyana Ipaja, a storey building  collapsed during the downpour. The ill-fated storey building consisted of eight rooms, 23 shops and a store. The prompt intervention by the emergency responders to the scene saved some injured occupants who were later taken to hospital. According to Oke-Osanyintolu, no life was lost in the process. He said: “Further investigation carried out by Lagos Response Team, LRT, revealed that the adjoining fence to the staircase collapsed. This also affected the toilet of the adjacent building. No loss of life or injury recorded.” Meanwhile, Oke-Osanyintolu said the affected area was, subsequently, cordoned off while integrity test was also carried out. At press time, Farinloye said NEMA and LASEMA had put resources together in recovery operations as soon as distress alert was received but the body has not been recovered. NEMA, therefore, enjoined residents of the state to be vigilant and look out for the victim and contact the agencies in case of any development. Vanguard THE pain inflicted on Lagosians by the torrential downpour last Sunday bit harder, yesterday, when 25 corpses were recovered including those of 11 children. July 12, 2011 In "Headlines" When the last Wednesday downpour began, residents in Lagos and Ogun states were gripped in palpable fear. The almost 24-hour rain which recorded in its wake colossal lose of properties, submerged communities and displaced persons. Saturday Vanguard team reports that vestiges of its aftermath populate the affected areas like sand… July 7, 2012 In "Special Report" IN one of his numerous hit albums,  Expensive Shit, released in 1975, late Afro-Beat King, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, sang that water had no enemy. In a long melodious and soul-stirring lyrics, Fela justified why water has no enemy. Till the date, and 43 years after, the song has remained evergreen. August 11, 2018 In "Just Human"