Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa has called for the law to take its full course on Ramoni Igbalode popularly known as Hushpuppi who was recently arrested by the United State’s Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for fraud. Dabiri-Erewa said this on her twitter handle @abikedabiri in reaction to the arrest of the popular Instagram celebrity. She expressed sadness over how the activities of Hushpuppi and his likes are making the efforts of Nigerians abroad futile. She wrote, “while many Nigerians abroad are working 3..4 jobs to make ends meet fraudsters like Ramoni Igbalode are spoiling their image. The law must take its full course. While many Nigs abroad are working 3..4 jobs to make ends meet fraudstars like Ramoni Igbalode are spoiling their image .The law must take its full course .https://t.co/ubDWNrlOCo — Abike Dabiri-Erewa (@abikedabiri) June 19, 2020  In an earlier tweet, she wrote; “Allegations against Ramoni Igbalode a k a Hushpuppi running into millions in fraud. I stress again, not a yardstick to judge Nigerians excelling abroad. One bad apple should indeed not spoil the whole bunch. Allegations against Ramoni Igbalode a k a Hushpuppi running into millions in fraud.I stress again ,not a yardstick to judge NiGERIANS excelling abroad . One bad apple should indeed not spoil the whole bunch https://t.co/oqLBfYmVgY — Abike Dabiri-Erewa (@abikedabiri) June 18, 2020 Vanguard earlier reported that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) said Hushpuppi has considerable cases of cybercrimes being investigated by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. The Spokesman for EFCC, Dele Oyewale said in a statement made available to Vanguard that the anti-graft agency ‘is familiar with grisly details of his money laundering transactions, involving many high-profile cybercriminals’ facing trial in Nigeria. It will be recalled that Hushpuppi was arrested on Wednesday, June 10, 2020, in the United Arab Emirates in connection with $35 million ventilator scam. VANGUARD The Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora, Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, has lamented the killing of another Nigerian in Poland May 26, 2010 In "News" Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, the Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission  (NiDC), on Saturday said the commission was pressing seeking an amendment of the Electoral Law to enable more than 20 million Nigerians living abroad to vote in country’s general election. She spoke in Ado-Ekiti at the celebration of the 2019… December 21, 2019 In "News" …EFCC worked with FBI to unravel fraud By Soni Daniel The Nigerian Government said on Friday it would take drastic measures to prevent Nigerians from engaging in cybercrimes to save its image from international embarrassment.   The Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mr Ibrahim Magu, made the… August 23, 2019 In "News"