Following the rape saga in the public space between Ms Seyitan Babatayo and Oladapo Oyebanjo popularly known as Dbanj, the former has further accused the latter of intimidation and coercion. Ms Seyitan revealed in a press statement via Twitter that Dbanj and his team have resulted to coerce, intimidate and pressured her to retract all of her statements and to announce that her testimonies are a public stunt. She said: “18th June 2020: I was isolated from my family, coerced, pressured and intimidated in person by Dbanj and his team to retract all statements and to announce that my testimony was a publicity stunt.” Contained in the press statement is a detailed break down of events between Ms Seyitan and Dbanj. She stated that: “On the 16th of June, 2020: Four armed policemen stormed my apartment and arrested me without a warrant. They seized my phones, other personal effects and detained me in a police cell overnight at IGP-IRT office at Herold Shosipo, Ikeja. “A friend reached out to a journalist who had been in contact with me earlier to raise the alarm that neither they nor my lawyers could reach me. “17th June 2020: With various efforts, I was released from custody, after being made to sign a gag order by the police and Dbanj’s team and could only post on social media what has been approved by Dbanj’s team. I spent the night in a location of Dbanj’s team choosing, which was not made known to the public.” Ms Seyitan brings to fore that since 18th June, Dbanj, through his team has continuously harassed her with incessant calls. She said: “Due to the distortion of facts in the media, I would like to clarify the timeline of events for the records.” Alleged Rape : Dbanj's Accuser, Ms Seyitan Babalola releases Official Press Statement pic.twitter.com/gSI5gtVGlY — Bronks & Montgomery (@bronksandmonts) June 23, 2020  vanguard By Juliet Ebirim If you have missed the story of how Oladapo Daniel Oyebanjo, the one everybody knows as DBanj, was accused of rape and turned the social media apart, here is a timeline as to how it all became and who said what. Singer accused of rape Nigerian singer,… June 24, 2020 In "Entertainment" ...As more than 14,000 wants UN to remove him as a Youth Ambassador By Juliet Ebirim The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has ordered a probe into the rape allegations levelled against popular singer, Oladapo Oyebanjo aka D’Banj, by Seyitan Babatayo. The order was contained in a letter signed by… June 19, 2020 In "Entertainment" By David Royal Ms Babatayo Seyitan, in a statement released on Tuesday, has come up with another revelation concerning the rape allegation against popular musician, D'banj, alleging that she was arrested and locked up in a police cell with criminals who violated laws. For over two weeks now, the Nigerian… June 24, 2020 In "News"