Abike Dabiri-Erewa, chairman and chief executive officer of Nigerians in the Diaspora Commission have disclosed that 300 stranded Nigerian travellers who arrive Abuja Airport on Friday from Dubai all tested negative for COVID 19 before boarding. Dabiri-Erewa stated this on her twitter handle disclosed that they will be tested again at Nigeria Centre for Disease Control NCDC government facility while on a 14-day compulsory self-isolation. Last week, the presidential task force on COVID-19 announced that passengers arriving or returning to Nigeria must have tested negative for COVID-19 (pre-boarding PCR test in the country of departure). This is a PCR test that must be within two weeks before departure and preferably not less than five days pre-boarding. In a statement issued by the presidential task force on COVID-19 office of the secretary to the government of the federation, it stated that tests done more than two weeks before departure are not valid and persons will not be allowed to board; but for the five days minimum, this is advisory and will not preclude boarding. According to the statement, onboard, passengers are required to fill in the Health Declaration/Self-Reporting Form & the Sample Collection Time Allocation Form and passengers should ensure that the information/contact details provided on the form are correct, verifiable and they can be reached on the phone number and address provided. Vanguardnews The Federal Government has said  Nigerians abroad, who wish to be evacuated, must test negative for the coronavirus. April 9, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, CEO of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa has urged Africa leaders to find a permanent solution to the ill-treatment being meted to Blacks by the global community, insisting there would a problem if allowed to fester. May 12, 2020 In "News" The Chairman of the Nigerian Diaspora Commission (NDC), Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, said on Tuesday a Diaspora Policy for Nigeria has been sent to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for ratification. Dabiri-Erewa disclosed this to State House correspondents after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. She expressed… December 31, 2019 In "News"