People turned out in low numbers and wearing face masks to vote on Sunday in France’s delayed second round of municipal elections, a mid-term test for President Emmanuel Macron and his ruling party, which could fail to win a single big city. A year ago, Macron had hoped the local elections would help anchor his young centrist party in towns and cities across France, including Paris, ahead of an anticipated 2022 re-election bid. But more recently, presidential aides have been playing down expectations. France’s 35,000 mayors set policy on issues from urban planning to education and the environment and while local factors, typically drive voter choices, they give the electorate an opportunity to support or punish a president mid-mandate. “We have a government that is completely disconnected from reality,’’ said Naouel, a voter in Paris’ 9th district, who said she was backing the centre-right opposition candidate. France had pressed ahead with the first round in mid-March, less than 48 hours before Macron imposed one of Europe’s strictest coronavirus lockdowns, forcing a long delay before the second round. The pandemic appeared to have depressed turnout. By 5.00 p.m. (1500 GMT) only 35 per cent of voters had cast a ballot, below the 52 per cent registered at the same time in the last municipal elections in 2014, and political observers forecast a record low. Polling stations closed at 6.00 p.m. in towns and small cities but remained open for an additional two hours in larger cities. The first results were expected from 8.00 p.m. local time. In polling stations in Paris, clerks wore masks or face shields, with some sitting behind plexiglass screens. “It’s better organised than last time,’’ said pensioner Jean de Nathan. In the capital, the elections biggest prize, the sitting socialist Mayor, Anne Hidalgo, is on track for a comfortable win after a shambolic campaign by Macron and his La Republique en Marche (LaRem) party. Paris is unlikely to be the only disappointment for Macron. The Greens could do well in cities such as Lyon, Marseille and Bordeaux, sometimes in alliance with the Left, building on the momentum they created in 2019’s European elections. In Perpignan, Marine Le Pen’s far-right party may take control of its first city with a population of more than 100,000. Macron has said he will “reinvent” his presidency and present a detailed plan next month for the final two years of his mandate. A government reshuffle is widely expected. The biggest question mark is over the future of Edouard Philippe, Macron’s popular Prime minister, who is running for his old job as mayor of Le Havre. Vanguard French voters flocked to the polls under heavy security Sunday in the first round of a cliffhanger presidential election seen as vital for the future of the ailing European Union. April 23, 2017 In "News" Emmanuel Macron, who exit polls say won France's presidential elections on Sunday, may have seen off the competition in the race for the Elysee Palace but will face daunting challenges when he takes office. May 7, 2017 In "News" Pro-European centrist Emmanuel Macron resoundingly won France's landmark presidential election on Sunday, first estimates showed, defeating far-right leader Marine Le Pen in a pivotal vote for the future of the divided country and Europe. May 7, 2017 In "News"