PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has appealed to Nigerians to be patient with his government as everything is being put in place to tackle headlong the insecurity in the polity. The President has also approved joint military, police operations to tackle insecurity in North West. President Buhari also called for calm in his home state of Katsina, assuring that security agencies were working to bring the current wave of banditry and killing to a halt. The President in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja, Tuesday, observed that violent reactions to the security by citizens could distract the plans already laid out by security agencies, assuring that security forces were capable of stemming both terrorism and banditry. READ ALSO: We will sell gasoline to Venezuela if asked — Mexican president The President appeal came on the heels of protest embarked upon by youths in Katsina State last week, over the alleged upsurge of insecurity in the state. The Youths, who used all sorts of abusive words against the government, had also called for the sack of the Service Chiefs. But the President in the statement appealed for more patience from the youths, saying the situation would soon be brought under control. According to the statement, “The Presidency assures Nigerians, again, that the nation’s armed forces are fully capable of dealing with the challenges of banditry and terrorism, urging more patience as the military takes appropriate steps to block gaps being exploited to unleash mayhem on innocent citizens. “President Muhammadu Buhari, who has approved a joint military and police operation specifically targeted at combing Niger, Kaduna, Katsina, Zamfara and Sokoto States to rid the areas of bandits, assures that surveillance will be improved, with more night vision aircrafts already deployed under ‘Operation Accord’. The operation was launched three weeks ago.” President Buhari further said, “Nigeria’s military has displayed its capabilities in the past and will show it again by dealing with the current challenges”. “President Buhari appeals to the people of Katsina State to be patient and supportive of the ongoing military operations in the state, while sympathizing with those who are bereaved, injured and lost properties. “President Buhari admonishes that taking to the streets for protest could distract the military operations, urging ‘Katsina indigenes not to give up on the military who over the years have a strong track record of quelling crises once given enough time. “The major forests in North Western Nigeria have been identified as home to the bandits in the region. The operation will clear all these forests.” Vanguard The Katsina State government, yesterday, said issue of insecurity relating to kidnappings, banditry and armed robbery bedevilling the state would soon be put to an end. January 11, 2019 In "News" THE Presidency has said despite security challenges in some parts of the country, the Federal Government is up to the task of reversing the trend. May 13, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has directed security agencies in the country to put an end to all the security challenges facing the nation. September 3, 2019 In "News"