Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, on Thursday, urged the state Ministry of Education to commence training and re-training of teachers on e-learning tools. This, it said, would sharpen their skills on e-teaching and e-learning in line with the present coronavirus situation. The resolution was taken sequel to a motion of urgent public importance brought before the House by the member representing Etim Ekpo/Ika State Constituency, Mr Mfon Idung. Idung said there was need for training and re-training of teachers on e-learning tools in preparation for post-COVID-19 education models. The lawmaker said the motion was necessitated, following perceived lack of preparedness by primary and secondary school teachers to confront changes in the education system occasioned by the pandemic. He said that the pandemic had greatly changed educational systems, shifting focus from conventional chalkboard demonstration, to sufficiently digital, e-learning and e-teaching models. He urged the ministry of education to consider making ICT compliance by teachers a major prerequisite for entry into the reaching service. The lawmaker expressed concern that teachers’ inadequacy, incompetency and inability to operate computers and engage in e-teaching would impact adversely on the performances of pupils and students across the state. The Speaker, Mr. Aniekan Bassey, said the motion was timely and commended the member representing Etim Ekpo/Ika for bringing the motion before the house. He directed the Clerk of the House, Mrs. Mandu Umoren, to communicate the resolution of the Assembly to the appropriate quarters. Also at plenary, the Assembly received motions on incessant and unauthorised encroachment of communities in Ini Local Government Area by neighbouring Abia communities from the member representing Ini State Constituency, Mr. Emmanuel Bassey. The Speaker referred the motion to the Committee on Boundary and Conflict Resolution and to report back to the house within one month. The Assembly also received a report of the Public Accounts Committee on the audited accounts of Akwa Ibom for the year ended December 31, 2019. Vanguard By Tordue Salem - Abuja The House of Representatives on Tuesday, urged the Ministry of Education, to include in primary and secondary school curricula, online education and e-learning, to carry along millions of children who are out of schools as a result of the effect of COVID 19. The House… May 19, 2020 In "News" By Chioma Onuegbu - Uyo Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom state has felicitated with the children on the celebration of the 2020 Children day, urging them to remain focused on their education. Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Ekerete Udoh in a statement made available to newsmen yesterday said the importance… May 27, 2020 In "News" Teach for Nigeria, a non-profit organization focused on expanding life opportunities for children in under-served schools in Nigeria, has partnered with ProFuturo, a digital  education programme founded by Telefónica Foundation and “La Caixa” Foundation and Empieza por Educar, a non-profit organization that works to achieve educational equity, to train 12,000… May 28, 2020 In "Education"