The end of the Danish league season will be played out in front of supporters, including up to 10,500 at FC Copenhagen, the government announced on Tuesday. There had been a limit of 500 people allowed to attend sporting events in Denmark following the coronavirus pandemic, but after three successful test matches with 3,000 spectators, the maximum attendance has been raised. “That experience has shown that it’s possible to hold matches with many spectators, so that will be a possibility during the summer,” Justice Minister Nick Haekkerup said in a statement. “The crisis is not over, but we are now taking another step towards the reopening of Denmark.” Up to 500 fans will be allowed in each section of football grounds, with social distancing of at least one metre, meaning the new capacities will be different for each stadium. A spokesperson for FC Copenhagen told AFP that up to 10,500 fans will be allowed into their 38,000-capacity Parken Stadium, which is scheduled to host Euro 2020 matches next year. The Danish top flight, which restarted on May 28, is due to finish its 2019/20 season on July 29. VANGUARD Real Madrid's players and staff went into quarantine on Thursday, Spain's La Liga paused its season and the NBA halted games indefinitely as the coronavirus pandemic rocked world sport. La Liga authorities took the decision to suspend matches in the top two divisions for two weeks after Real Madrid confirmed its senior football team was… March 12, 2020 In "Sports" Staging football matches without spectators must only be a short-term fix during the COVID-19 pandemic as the prolonged absence of fans could damage the game, former Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger says. The German Bundesliga became the first major football league to resume since the novel coronavirus outbreak shut down sports… May 18, 2020 In "Sports" Bastian Schweinsteiger believes Bayern Munich are well equipped to win a Bundesliga, DFB-Pokal and Champions League treble this season as he considers a return to football. Bayern have picked up where they left off in the Bundesliga since the league restarted following a two-month pause due to the coronavirus pandemic,… May 2, 2020 In "Sports"