A chieftain of All Progressive Congress, APC, Victor Oshioke, said the statement from the University of Ibadan did not answer the questions raised by those querying the academic credentials of Obaseki. He said: “As far as I know, nobody has said that Obaseki is not an alumnus of UI. What I have heard echoed by a lot of people recently, is that the O/Level grades of Obaseki in the public domain does not qualify him to be admitted into the University of Ibadan for a degree course. “Also, some commentators have argued that the documents he attached to his expression of interest form in 2016 are different from those he attached to his 2020 form. It has also been argued that his UI degree certificate is different from the certificates of other UI alumni who graduated at the same time as the governor. “The fundamental issue here is not whether Obaseki attended the University of Ibadan or not, but about discrepancies in the information submitted at different times by Godwin Obaseki about his academic history and credentials. You can recall the Bayelsa catastrophe that all Edo APC members are trying to avoid was essentially about discrepancies in the names ascribed to the deputy governorship candidate at different times. “So I think it is Obaseki that has a lot of reconciliation to do about his true academic history. The clarification made by the management of the University of Ibadan does not, in my opinion, clear the various shades of doubt that has been raised recently by numerous concerned Nigerians about Godwin Obaseki’s academic credentials” Similarly, a University don, Prof. Idemudia Oviosun challenged Obaseki to offer clarifications on the alleged inconsistencies. Idemudia said: “I have studied copies of the said certificates making the rounds on the internet and whether or not Obaseki graduated from the University of Ibadan. Answers must be provided on why the governor has different and conflicting copies of his certificate from the institution, why he swore an affidavit saying he graduated in 1976 when his certificate read 1979, and how he managed to sit for five subjects at the Advanced Level when independent checks have shown that students were only allowed to sit for four subjects. “Forging documents and lying under oath are separate issues from graduation and we hereby call on the investigatory bodies in the country to double their efforts in getting to the root of the matter to avoid an unfortunate situation where a man who conjured documents is not only allowed to get away with it but rewarded with a leadership position.” Vanguard News Nigeria Fireworks ahead of the June 22 governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress, APC, continued yesterday, with the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki crying that he may not get justice from the Screening Committee June 11, 2020 In "Politics" ...Obaseki duly earned his certificates, says aide By Ozioruva Aliu BENIN CITY – ADAMAWA state governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri has expressed optimism that his Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki would overcome the political challenges in the Edo State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and emerge the party's flagbearer… June 9, 2020 In "Politics" The national leadership of APC yesterday set up a committee to screen its six governorship aspirants in Edo State, saying without prejudice to the work of the committee and that of the Screening Appeals Panel, the National Working Committee, NWC, has the final say on the fate of the aspirants. June 10, 2020 In "News"