Popular Nigerian online comedy group, Ikorodu Bois, have received an invitation to the premiere of Hollywood thriller, Extraction 2. Ikorodu Bois is a Nigerian online comedy group that recreates and mimics “multi-million dollar music videos and Hollywood movie trailers”. Ikorodu Bois drew the attention of the producers of the movie, Russo Brothers, following the remake of the movie trailer. In a tweet on Wednesday, the Russo Brothers expressed excitement at the remake and invited the trio to the world premiere of their Netflix action film sequel. “This is awesome! We would love to have you guys at the #Extraction 2 premiere…DM us and we’ll get you there!” the Russo Brothers tweeted. This is awesome! We would love to have you guys at the #Extraction 2 premiere…DM us and we’ll get you there! https://t.co/6eufmJMgT7 — Russo Brothers (@Russo_Brothers) June 24, 2020  In reply, the Ikorodu Bois wrote: “This would be a dream come through and this is the day we’ve been waiting for all our lives.” The Ikorodu Bois gained notoriety for remaking scenes from famous music videos and Hollywood films. Months ago, the boys caught the attention of American actor, Will Smith, after they recreated the Bad Boys Forever trailer. Actor, Dwayne Johnson, and basketball player, Lebron James, have also reached out to the boys in recent times. The group is made up of 15-year-old Muiz Sanni, 10-year-old Malik Sanni and 13-year-old Fawas Aina. Their 23-year-old brother, Babatunde Sanni, manages and edits the videos. Vanguard Nigeria News The makers of the world's biggest blockbuster unveiled the first Hollywood action movie shot entirely in Arabic Wednesday at the Venice film festival. September 4, 2019 In "Entertainment" I always tell people that I am a product of grace, not because I am the best or I know how to do it more than other people but it’s because I have this shining light in my direction.” October 1, 2016 In "Entertainment" Following the recent release of the first teaser of the movie, Chief Daddy, EbonyLife Films has announced the date of the movie’s premiere, set for December 2, 2018. The highly anticipated launch will take place at the Oriental Hotel in Lekki, Lagos. September 21, 2018 In "Showtime People"