The father of the Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, Alhaji Sule Bawa, who is also the Emir of Gudi in Akwanga Local Government Area of the State, has been hospitalised and is in isolation centre at the Dalhatu Araf Specialist hospital in Lafia. A resident of Gudi who pleaded anonymity said the monarch (Gov Sule father) developed fever and started coughing unabated and was rushed to the VIP section of Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital, Lafia Wednesday. According to the source, “On Thursday, a team of health personnel fumigated the Palace of the traditional rule and the Personal residence of the Governor,” he said. The source added that it is not known whether the monarch (Gov Sule father) contracted the coronavirus during the times his subjects visit him to pay homage especially on market days. When contacted, the Chief Medical Director of the Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital, Dr Hassan Ikrimat, said: ”It is unethical to disclose the identity of any patient.” Governor Abdullahi Sule has however said samples of suspected cases in Nasarawa collected have been taken to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Abuja for testing. In the same vein, three medical doctors have tested positive to Coronavirus pandemic in Nasarawa State. Chairman, Nigeria Medical Association, (NMA), Nasarawa State branch, Dr. Bulus Peter Umaru  who  confirmed the development  said three of his members  have contacted the  disease in the course of  duty  dealing with patients.” “The doctors in question are now in admission at Federal Medical Center, (FMC), Keffi in the isolation centre and are responding to treatment. Dr Bulus called on Nasarawa State Government to hasten the approval and implementation of the payment of hazard allowance to health workers. Vanguard A driver with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has tested positive for COVID-19 in Nasarawa State. The state Governor, Abdullahi Sule, disclosed this during an expanded state security meeting in Lafia Tuesday. Sule said the driver transported test samples to the NCDC in Abuja and got infected in… May 5, 2020 In "News" Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa says the state has recorded an additional confirmed case of coronavirus, bringing the number of active cases to 12. Sule made the disclosure during an expanded state security meeting on Tuesday in Lafia. The governor said the affected person is a driver with the Nigeria… May 5, 2020 In "News" By David Odama, Lafia Nasarawa Governor, Abdullahi Sule has decried the increasing cases of COVID-19 in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT ) describing the situation as worrisome not only to the government but the entire people of the state. According to the governor, the proximity of the state to the… April 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"