President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the reappointment of Professor Umar Garba Danbatta as the Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission. Professor Danbatta’s reappointment was based on the recommendation of the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali  Ibrahim (Pantami), in line with the Nigerian Communications Act, 2003. According to the Minister, the renewal of the appointment was to consolidate the gains made in the telecommunications sector in line with the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy, While wishing Professor Danbatta the best, the Minister directed him to significantly improve on the overall performance of the Commission as well as ensure that adequate mechanisms are put in place to facilitate the implementation of all policies of Federal Government through the Ministry. He further charged him to ensure that the interest of telecommunication consumers, Nigerians and investors are adequately protected. Recall that Prof. Danbatta was appointed the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC by President Buhari in 2015 or five year tenure after the expiration of the two tenure of his predecessor Eugine Juwa. Vanguard By Prince Osuagwu, Hi-Tech Editor The present Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, appears to be over-reaching itself on matters of telecom regulation. Its officials also appear to be biting off more than they can chew, negating relevant laws that clearly define the relationship between the ministry and the Nigerian… March 25, 2020 In "Technology" The new NCC chief executive’s other academic qualifications include a Bachelors Degree in Electronic Engineering and Telecommunications, as well as a Masters Degree in the same field. He is a Fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers and had meritorious career in which he rose to become Professor of Electrical… August 4, 2015 In "News" By Prince Osuagwu - Hi-Tech Editor President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday, renamed the Communications Technology Ministry to Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy. The development, Vanguard gathered, was in answer to the prayers of the current Minister of Communications, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, who wishes that it be… October 25, 2019 In "Technology"