Fighters from an IS-linked jihadist group (ISWAP) on Tuesday killed 59 people in a raid on Felo village at Gabio district, in Borno State, local militia members and residents told AFP. Fighters from the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) drove into remote Felo village in Gubio district in the early afternoon, shooting fleeing Borno residents and running them over with their vehicles. “Fifty-nine bodies were recovered from the raid on the village,” anti-jihadist militia leader Babakura Kolo said. “Some of them were shot and others were crushed under the wheels,” he added. The attack is believed to be a reprisal for the killing of jihadist fighters by local vigilantes protecting the villagers’ herd from theft by the militants, a local leader in the village said. “We have lost 59 kinsmen in such a short time,” said the local leader who asked not to be named for his personal safety. The jihadists (ISWAP fighters) have been stealing livestock from the Borno village, prompting residents to form a militia force to end the theft, said another militiaman Ibrahim Liman, who gave the same toll. The vigilantes have been “hunting for the insurgents” in the bushes, killing some of them in gunfights, Liman said. Gubio, 80 kilometres (50 miles) from the regional capital Maiduguri, has been repeatedly targeted by the jihadists. The incessant attacks prompted the authorities to send more than 100 vigilantes and local hunters to protect the town and nearby areas against incursions from ISWAP. ISWAP is a splinter faction that broke away from Boko Haram in 2016. It has intensified attacks against the military in the last two years, repeatedly carrying out deadly strikes against soldiers. In recent months there has been an increase in attacks on civilians blamed on the group. The decade-long conflict has killed 36,000 people and displaced around two million from their homes in the northeast. The violence has spread to neighbouring Niger, Chad and Cameroon, prompting a regional military coalition to fight the insurgents. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Nine people were killed and nine others injured when Boko Haram fighters raided two villages in northeast Nigeria, the civilian militia said on Thursday. September 20, 2018 In "News" Jihadists killed at least 30 people and abducted women and children in a raid in northeast Nigeria's restive Borno state, a regional government spokesman said on Monday. February 10, 2020 In "News" Boko Haram gunmen on Saturday killed 23 mourners in Borno state in Nigeria's restive northeast after they attended a funeral, local militia and residents said. July 27, 2019 In "News"