The governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed has been appointed by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) as Chairman, electoral committee for Edo State 2020 gubernatorial primary election. The Senior Special Assistant to the governor, Muhktar Gidado made this known in a press statement on Monday. He said members of the committee include; governors of Oyo and Zamfara states, Seyi Makinde and Bello Matawalle respectively, and Senator Lilian Uche Ekwunife, while Honorable Solomon Bulus Maren will serve as Secretary of the committee. “Taking into cognizance Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed’s vast political experience, loyalty, and commitment to the party, coupled with the caliber of members of his team, it is expected that the committee will work assiduously to ensure hitch-free conduct of the PDP primary election in Edo state. “The National Working Committee of the PDP has already scheduled Thursday, the 25th of this month for the conduct of the party’s Gubernatorial Primary Election in Benin City, Edo State. “It could be recalled that, His Excellency, Governor Bala Mohammed was at one-time the Chairman, PDP Campaign Council for 2020 Bayelsa State Gubernatorial election and Chairman PDP ad-hoc committee charged with the responsibility of critically and extensively reviewing all matters relating to staff and funding for the party’s National Secretariat,” the governor’s media aide said. Vanguard News Nigeria. The two major political parties in Bauchi State, All Progressives Congress, APC and Peoples Democratic Party, PDP have their work cut out for them ahead of the governorship election. November 14, 2018 In "News" Those without work should stay away from the PDP secretariat. I am here to work, there is no doubt that all has not been well with our party. I will restore the lost glory of the PDP, with your total support.” October 19, 2014 In "Politics" The ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, suffered a major setback yesterday, when the Court of Appeal, Sokoto Division declined recognition of its primaries that produced National and state House of Assembly candidates in Zamfara State, including the Governor-elect, Muktar Idris. March 26, 2019 In "Elections 2019 Updates"