RIVERS State Ministry of Health has directed all the management staff of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, to go on self-isolation for 14-days with effect from  Tuesday after confirming that the former Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Elder Ibanga Etang, died from complications attributable to Covid-19. A top official of the Commission, who confirmed the order to Vanguard, last night, said the ministry was already on the trail of staff and contractors, who had close contact with the deceased. He said: The management of the Niger Delta Development Commission has been consulting with the family of Elder Ibanga Bassey Etang, who passed away early hours of Thursday, May 28. “The family has authorized the commission to announce that the late executive director tested positive to COVID 19. “The Rivers State Ministry of Health has written to the commission to also confirm the cause of death resulting from complications attributable to COVID 19. “The ministry has, therefore, directed the commission to order all management staff to go into self-isolation for a period of 14 days with effect from today, while seeking the cooperation of the organisation in tracing staff and contractors, who have had close contact with the deceased. “During the meeting with the family, they expressed the fervent desire that the death of the Executive director should not be politicised, wishing to be left alone to mourn with dignity. This also is the position of the commission,” the source said. …Urges all staff to report to NCDC centres By Chris Ochayi ABUJA - The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio has ordered the immediate shutdown of the headquarters of the Niger Delta Development Commission in Port Harcourt following the sudden death of the Commission’s Executive Director, Finance and… May 29, 2020 In "News" By Chioma Onuegbu, Uyo Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom state has vowed to investigate the sudden death of the Acting Executive Director, Finance and Administration of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Ibanga Bassey Etang. Emmanuel made the vow during the commissioning of the 300-bed Isolation Centre in Ituk… May 30, 2020 In "News" Health workers use proxy to bare frustrations on avoidable risks of infection they are subjected to at the Rivers State University Teaching Hospital where three VIP coronavirus cases died in five days. May 31, 2020 In "News"