By Clifford Ndujihe Edo State government, on Sunday, said all the 15 parties taking part in the September 19 governorship poll have notified it of their readiness to comply with the state’s COVID-19 law on political gatherings, except All Progressives Congress, APC. In a statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie, government restated its readiness to protect the lives of Edo people and ensure that all activities during this period are done in compliance with extant laws and regulations to safeguard people and ensure that the healthcare system is not overwhelmed. It appealed to the Presidency, President Muhammadu Buhari, the Inspector General of Police, Director of Department of State Services, and other security agencies to prevail on those behind the lawlessness to desist. However, APC Primary Committee Chairman, Senator Hope Uzodinma, said on Sunday, that the committee will comply with the COVID-19 law and ensure that not more than 18 persons gather at a spot from the beginning of the primaries to the end. The law says not more than 20 persons. Meanwhile, the state government called on all political parties holding primary elections to restrict themselves to conducting their activities within the protocols and regulations provided for in the Edo State Coronavirus (COVUID-19) Quarantine Regulations and the Government’s gazette on political gatherings during this pandemic. Edo Government said: “We note with concern that all the political parties conducting primary elections in Edo State have notified the government of their readiness to comply with the extant laws of COVID-19 regulations, except the All Progressives Congress, APC.” Vanguard ‘APC acting in defiance of our regulations’ Warns against use of thugs to disrupt peace, stir up violence The Edo State Government has reiterated its resolve to enforce the laws and regulations emplaced to prevent the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19), charging political parties to restrict the conduct of their primary… June 21, 2020 In "News" The Edo State Government has reiterated that all political parties in the state must obey the regulations spelt out in its gazette, aimed at curtailing the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19), in the conduct of their primary elections ahead of the September gubernatorial election in the state. The Deputy Governor, Rt.… June 10, 2020 In "Politics" Edo Government has called on all political parties in the state to obey and follow the laid down rules in the Gazette curtailing the spread of COVID-19 during the conduct of their primaries. June 9, 2020 In "News"