The Oyo State COVID-19 Taskforce, says it is yet to relax the ban on religious activities and the curfew imposed as a result of the pandemic. A statement issued in Ibadan, on Tuesday, by Mr. Taiwo Adisa, Chief Press Secretary to Gov. Seyi Makinde, confirmed that the Taskforce, chaired by the governor, made its position public after a two-hour online meeting on Tuesday evening. Adisa said the task force was still evaluating the situation in the state and would not be able to follow the decision by the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, which relaxed the ban on religious gathering and the curfew. He explained that the position was informed by the ongoing risk, situation analysis being undertaken by a team of experts. “The Oyo state COVID-19 Taskforce wishes to alert the public that the ban on religious gathering remains in force in the state. ” The 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew earlier imposed in the state as a result of the ravaging pandemic, will also remain in force until further notice. “This is because the taskforce is awaiting a risk, situation analysis report by a team of experts, earlier commissioned to do so. “The report is expected at the end of the week and it is only after the report has been analysed by the task force that it can be in a position to make further clarifications,” he said. He indicated that the Taskforce would always make its decisions in relation to the behavioral patterns of the Coronavirus in its domain, relying on science, logic, and data; assuring residents that the state was leaving no stone unturned in curtailing the spread of the virus. “Meanwhile, the Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) of the Taskforce will on Wednesday, commence the community testing for COVID-19, with the aim of determining the behaviour of the virus in the state. “The exercise, which is scheduled to hold in 10 locations, will kick off in three different sites in Ibadan on Wednesday,” Adisa further said. Mass testing to commence weekend — Task Force The Oyo State COVID-19 Task Force, on Sunday, relaxed the existing curfew imposed on the state in respect of the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic to between 8.p.m. and 5 a.m. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Seyi Makinde, Mr Taiwo… May 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Ola Ajayi - Ibadan THE Oyo State Government has dismissed a report that it had lifted ban on religious gathering which it had earlier imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. According to a statement signed by Mr Jide Ajani, Special Adviser on Media to Governor Seyi Makinde… May 21, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has directed the "restrictive opening" of worship centres but with a caveat that relevant containment protocols against the Covid-19 be respected in line with the agreement reached between the Presidential Taskforce PTF on Covid-19 and the state governments. June 1, 2020 In "News"