FIRST Lady, Dr. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, has returned to Nigeria after spending some weeks in the United Arab Emirates, UAE, for medical treatment. It was gathered that the First Lady left Nigeria immediately after the Eid prayers as a result of  a neck problem. Aisha, in a statement she signed, yesterday, expressed appreciation to Nigerians for their prayers while she was away for medical treatment. She said on her way back the Nigerian Airforce flight encountered air turbulence, which was navigated safely and professionally by the Captain and crew. The statement read,   “I want to use this opportunity to thank all Nigerians for their prayers and well wishes while I was away for medical treatment in the United Arabs Emirates   (UAE). I am well now and fully recovered and had since returned back home, Nigeria. “On our way back, the Nigerian Airforce Flight encountered  air turbulence, which was navigated safely and professionally by the Captain and crew. “I want to commend and appreciate the courage and professionalism of the Captain and his crew, the wonderful gallant service men and women of the entire Nigerian Airforce for their dedication to duty and the quality of maintenance of its fleet. “I recall hosting the private healthcare providers earlier in the year and we had a very productive engagement where the issue of building the capacity of Nigeria health sector was the major focus, and funding was discovered to be the major challenge. “I therefore, call on the healthcare providers to take the advantage of the Federal Government’s initiative through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) guidelines for the operation of NGN100 Billion Credit Support for the Healthcare Sector as was released recently in a circular dated March 25, 2020 to Commercial Banks. “This will no doubt help in building and expanding the capacity of the Nigerian health sector and ultimately reduce medical trips and tourism outside the Country. “ Once again, I thank our frontline workers, and all Nigerians for their steadfastness as we navigate the challenges facing the entire world.” Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja Nigerian First Lady, Dr Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, has returned to Nigeria after spending few weeks in the United Arab Emirates, UAE for medical treatment. It was gathered that the First Lady left Nigeria immediately after the Eid prayers as a result of a neck problem.… August 22, 2020 In "News" Aisha Buhari By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja First Lady, Dr Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, who returned from the United Arab Emirates, UAE after spending few weeks for medical treatment has noted that: "funding was discovered to be the major challenge" of the Nigerian health sector. It was gathered that the First… August 23, 2020 In "News" …Commends NAF Captain & Crew for navigating safely By Ibrahim HassanWuyo First Lady of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Aisha Muhammadu Buhari has said that her flight had a violent clear air turbulence, while returning to Nigeria from her medical trip overseas. "On our way back, the Nigerian Airforce Flight… August 23, 2020 In "News"