The Deputy Governor of Edo State, Comrade Phillip Shaibu on Friday praised Governor Godwin Obaseki for his pragmatic leadership, purposeful administration and uncommon vigour. ‘’Governor Godwin Obaseki will lead the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to victory on September 19, 2020.’’. he said. In a statement in Benin, Shaibu refuted the report on Governor Obaseki, Committees and Funding in Edo governorship election. ‘’The attention of the office of the Deputy Governor has been drawn to a false publication that is making the rounds on social media about the funding of the September 2020 governorship election. It is the figment of the imagination of the faceless writer to smear the hard image of the deputy governor. It is a malicious and evil motivated report being peddled by our detractors’’. The statement described the story as misguided and misleading information. ‘’My loyalty to Governor Godwin Obaseki remains sacrosanct. I am loyal to my governor. We are united and I will give all necessary support for us to win the September 19 governorship election No amount of blackmail, propaganda and, falsehood can stop us from winning the September 19 governorship election The statement condemned the recourse to Nazi tactics by desperate politicians. The statement urged Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his associates not to dissipate their energies on the September 19 governorship election. The statement enjoined the public to ignore the lies being peddled by those who obviously did not wish Edo State well ‘’We thank the good and peace-loving people of Edo State who have refused to be hoodwinked by the tissues of lies being woven and dished out by desperate politicians and their sponsors’’ the statement added. Vanguard News Nigeria Deputy Governor of Edo State, Comrade Philip Shaibu has called on members of the public to disregard the ongoing propaganda that he is on a warpath with his boss, even as he accused former APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and s Ize-Iyamu of conducting their political affairs as a… August 1, 2020 In "News" Edo State Deputy Governor and running mate of Governor Godwin Obaseki in the state’s forthcoming gubernatorial election, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu, addressing supporters at a rally in Jattu, Etsako West Local Government Area (LGA). Says no amount of kneeling stunt will save Oshiomhole from defeat, humiliation The Edo State… July 30, 2020 In "Politics" Reaffirm support for governor’s re-election bid Members of the Edo State House of Assembly and the Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Edo State Chapter, have congratulated the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, on his emergence as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP's) flagbearer in the forthcoming gubernatorial election… June 28, 2020 In "Politics"