Tiffany Haddish has confirmed her relationship with Common. The “Girls Trip” star, 40 revealed the romance on Steve-O’s podcast “Wild Ride,” calling it, “the best relationship I’ve ever been in.” “This is hands down the best relationship I’ve ever been in. Knock on wood! I’ve lost 20 pounds since I’ve been in this relationship.” She continued: “I feel more confident in me and it’s not him that’s doing it. I’m just way happier and it’s like knowing I got somebody that cares about me, that really has my back. It seems like he does anyways. And I love it. I love him.” Fans have been speculating about the couple, who appeared to have signed a deal with dating app Bumble to promote virtual dating during the COVID pandemic, for months. They popped up together at Zoom parties and flaunted their romance at Questlove’s Instagram Live birthday celebration for Janet Jackson back in May. They were also snapped at a Black Lives Matter protest rally in Los Angeles with Megan Thee Stallion. Haddish explained that both have been tested for COVID and are clear so, “yeah, we’ve been f–king.” The Grammy winner, 48, also loves his gal’s newly shorn head which mirrors his own smooth pate. “I’ve been talking about cutting my hair for years … he said it was beautiful. He’s like, ‘Wow, you did it, man. You’ve got a lot of courage. You look so beautiful. I love it.’ “And I’m like, ‘Ahh, put your head on my head,’” Haddish added. Page Six Vanguard A few of you readers have pleaded that I should treat problems that their youngsters could relate to. From time to time, I’ve tried to do that. So when recently, I got this piece from my e-mail, I jumped at the opportunity to share Roy’s problem with my younger readers.… April 22, 2017 In "Relationships" Curvaceous actress, Biodun Okeowo, who hit the limelight in the flick, Tolani Oshirin, is one of the glamorous actresses rocking the Yoruba movie sector at the moment with her uncommon talent and irresistible sex appeal. Apart from featuring in many films, she has also made her mark as a producer… January 11, 2013 In "Showtime People" A group of us friends are in our late 20’s and my friends are always telling me how their girlfriends praise their prowess all of the time. I’ve had some hot affairs but not all these girls told me I drove them wild. How can I really tell if I… December 22, 2010 In "News"