The Association of Nigerian Academics in the UK, ANAUK, has appealed to good-spirited Nigerians to assist in the provision of support for self-sponsored Nigerians in universities in the UK. In a statement by the President of the association, Adedamola Aminu, and its PRO, Gbemiga Adeniji, the association said such support will help cushion the effect of the coronavirus pandemic on the students. The statement read in part: “At the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, many students experienced severe financial hardship due to their inability to work. “They got little or no support from their families and educational institutions. In response to their plight, the association supported a number of these students through the Oluremi Tinubu Hardship Fund with over N2 million. “However, many students still require financial assistance as their circumstances are yet to improve due to the slow pace of economic recovery and financial uncertainty created by the pandemic. “In this regard, we are appealing to well-meaning individuals and organisations for donations to enable us to provide support for more students during this difficult period. “Interested donors should please contact the President, Aminu, or its Secretary, Dr Toyin Coker,” the ANAUK statement noted. VANGUARD By Elizabeth Osayande The United Kingdom (UK) Universities Minister, Michelle Donelan, has promised that the coronavirus pandemic will not hinder the education of Nigerians studying in the country. In a statement made available to Vanguard, Donelan explained that the UK was doing everything possible to ensure that academic activities continue… June 25, 2020 In "Education" Inaugurates AANI COVID-19 Cttee By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja The Alumni Association of National Institute, AANI, Saturday, felicitates with Christians across the country and the world and expressed hope of overcoming the deadly Coronavirus, COVID-19, pandemic. This was stated by the National President, AANI, former Inspector General of Police, IGP,… April 13, 2020 In "News" By James Ogunnaike, Abeokuta The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) on Tuesday cautioned President Mohammadu Buhari not to bow to pressure from some Nigerians who are calling for the suspension or relaxation of the lockdown, saying that Nigeria cannot afford to lose the battle against the dreaded coronavirus pandemic.… April 28, 2020 In "News"