Lebanese President Michel Aoun on Friday ruled out resigning in the wake of last week’s disastrous explosion at Beirut port, in which 178 people were killed and some 6,000 injured. Prime Minister Hassan Diab and his government resigned on Monday amid growing anger on the streets, but Aoun told French broadcaster BFMTV that if he followed suit it would cause a “power vacuum.” The current situation in Lebanon made it impossible to organize elections “that would enable a genuine representation of the people,” Aoun said in an interview, speaking mostly through a translator. The blast, which caused massive damage to buildings in the capital, was apparently caused by tons of ammonium nitrate stored in the port without proper safety measures. Aoun, however, said that “all hypotheses” were still open. The president accepted that there was public anger, and said he could understand it although it hurt him. “I am a son of the people. They call me the father of the people,” he insisted. Aoun denied that the high-profile visit two days after the explosion by French President Emmanuel Macron, or the latter’s plan to return on September 1 to check up on progress in reforms, amounted to outside interference in Lebanese affairs. Those providing aid had “the right to give advice so that the work is done properly,” he argued – though, he said, foreign countries must not get involved in the designation of the next government. DPA Vanguard News Nigeria Lebanon's president Friday rejected any international probe into the catastrophic port blast, saying a missile or negligence could have been responsible as rescuers desperately combed the rubble for survivors. The entrenched ruling class has come under fire once again since Tuesday's explosion, which killed at least 154 people and devastated… August 8, 2020 In "Foreign" The death toll from Tuesday's port explosion in Beirut has risen to 154, a Lebanese Health Ministry official said, as rescue workers struggled to remove chunks of debris in the search for survivors and victims. "Due to the massive damage we are seeing, we have doubts there are survivors, but we… August 8, 2020 In "Foreign" A Beirut judge has ordered the detention of the director of Lebanese customs and a port director, after the massive blast which ripped through the capital city’s port. This is according to a report by the Lebanese National News agency. Tuesday’s explosion killed 154 people and injured more than 4,000,… August 8, 2020 In "Foreign"