Imo State governor, Hope Uzodimma has petitioned the National Judicial Council (NJC) and Abubakar Malami, Attorney-General of the Federation over the tag “supreme court governor” used to describe him by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In January, Emeka Ihedioha was sacked as Imo State governor following the apex court ruling that Uzodinma was the duly elected governor of the state on the grounds that results from 388 polling units were excluded when the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) announced the final tally in March 2019. In the petition, also addressed to the leadership of the National Assembly, Batos Chikezie, Special Adviser to Uzodinma on Political Matters asked that Ogubundu Nwadike, the publicity secretary for PDP in the state and other loyalists be stopped from using the “supreme court governor” tag as it is derogatory. Chikezie said since the supreme court’s decision on January 14, 2020, “Nwadike continued to refer to Uzodinma as the supreme court governor and Chief Emeka Ihedioha as the elected governor of the state in the print, electronic and social media.” He described the tag as “wicked propaganda and blackmail characteristically designed to incite and delude the people of the state thereby misdirecting them to disregard the judiciary.” He also asked that the NJC through the registrar of the supreme court ensure that Nwadike is made to stand trial for “persistently making a mockery of the decision and proceeding of the supreme court on the Imo state gubernatorial election, thereby making them look compromised and biased in the eyes of the public which is a dent on their integrity and pedigree.” Vanguard Gov. Hope Uzodinma of Imo has asked the Supreme Court to dismiss an application filed by former governor of the state, Emeka Ihedioha. February 17, 2020 In "News" ENUGU- LAST week Supreme Court judgment which sacked Emeka Ihedioha of PDP as governor and replaced him with Hope Uzodinma of APC rattled not only the people of Imo State but the South East, especially members of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and many others who have rejected the judgment. January 22, 2020 In "News" By Chinonso Alozie, Owerri The Imo state government has said that the former governor, Emeka Ihedioha, was desperate to return back to power as governor to cover up allegations of fraud against him (Ihedioha) and his cronies. The commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, spoke to newsmen in Owerri,… July 17, 2020 In "Politics"