Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai has reacted to the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) withdrawal of the invitation by its 2020 Annual General Conference Planning Committee. The Governor who spoke through his Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Muyiwa Adekeye, said he will “continue to contribute to the national conversation”. The National Executive Committee (NEC) of NBA during a virtual meeting on Thursday had rescinded the invitation extended to the governor to speak during its 60th annual Conference. This was following outrage on social media by young lawyers. Adekeye in a press statement noted; “When lawyer friends requested Malam Nasir El-Rufai to accept the invitation of the NBA to participate in a panel discussion on national identity, he accepted as part of his commitment to having a national conversation and the evolution of a national consensus. “NBA platform or not, these worthy conversations must continue. He will continue to make his voice heard on the things our country needs to do for its progress. “While the decision about who speaks at its event is clearly the NBA’s, Malam El-Rufai wishes to make clear that he did not seek the platform and is not agitated that he has one less speaking engagement. “However, the circumstances of the last few days warrant some comments. That a professional organisation has elected to endorse a one-sided narrative on a profound national issue is something that its members may wish to reflect upon. “For an association, whose bread and butter is about justice to make a ruling based on the stridency of people who lampoon judicial processes against certain individuals without hearing the other side is odd. “It bears noting that in its response to pressure, the NBA leadership has signaled an unfortunate embrace of injustice, unfairness, absence of fair hearing and total disregard for the rule of law. “The defamatory statements in the petition is another matter entirely, and they will get the appropriate response. “Malam Nasir El-Rufai has taken several actions on the security, institutional and technology fronts to address the legacy of violent strife in the state. “He is the governor that made permanent military and police bases a reality in southern Kaduna, after close to 40 years of waiting. “He is the governor that set up a Peace Commission to nudge communities to embrace their responsibility to live in peace and harmony. “He has done this with equality of concern for all residents, not just those with access to the media and who are able to mobilise sentiment even when they are part of the problem. “His investments in building a constituency for peace, anchored on the rule of law, respect for the citizenship rights of everyone and an embrace of the obligations of a common humanity will continue. “Those who have chosen to pretend that it is only Kaduna State that is experiencing the security challenges in North-West, or that it is only one part of the state that is affected can enjoy the illusion. “Malam El-Rufai remains focused on the tough and hard work of stopping the bleeding and the needless breaking of bones.” Vanguard News Nigeria. By Rasheed Sobowale The National Executive Committee (NEC) of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) in its Pre-AGC meeting has announced the withdrawal of an invitation to Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, by the 2020 Annual General Conference Planning Committee. The ongoing virtual NEC meeting led by the outgoing president… August 20, 2020 In "News" Deputy National Secretary of All Progressives Congress APC Mallam Nasir El-Rufai who was detained by the Department of State Security DSS last Monday was released Tuesday morning. January 28, 2014 In "News" Deputy National Secretary of All Progressives Congress, APC , Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, who was detained by the Department of State Services, DSS, last Monday was released yesterday morning. This was disclosed, yesterday, by Mr. Muyiwa Adekeye, Media Assistant to El-Rufai, while speaking to Vanguard in a telephone interview. January 29, 2014 In "News"