The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Polaris Bank Limited, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, has announced his retirement from the service of the bank, effective August 31, 2020, having successfully completed his second two-year tenure at the helm of the bank. In a farewell message to the staff of the bank, Abiru explained that having served in the banking industry for nearly three decades, he had resolved to retire to enable him contribute his quota in other areas of the society. Going down memory lane, he reminded staff of the Bank’s poor state before he assumed office in 2016 as the Group Managing Director of the erstwhile Skye Bank. He praised the staff for working with him to reverse the trend and bring about an institution that has become a compelling case study in corporate turnaround within Nigeria’s financial services industry. In his words: “We have reversed almost all regulatory ratios for good and currently rank amongst the very best in the industry. There can be no better testament to the much-improved state of the Bank than the full year 2019 results in which the Bank posted Profit After Tax of N27billion. “To buttress the fact that this is sustainable, the Bank’s first half 2020 result showed a PAT of over N18billion, despite the tremendous headwinds brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. “We also  commenced the refreshment of  the Bank’s IT infrastructure, which had  largely become outdated and dilapidated due to years of  under-investment. “As a result of the successful completion  of the first phase  of the IT Refresh Program,  which  consisted mainly of  upgrade of the infrastructure  and  digital platforms, and relocation of the Bank’s Data Centres to  Tier III  data locations as mandated by CBN regulations and in  line with global best practices, the Bank’s customers are now experiencing significantly improved service delivery. Vanguard Polaris Bank CEO, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru has disclosed that Nigeria’s health sector holds immense potential to create wealth for the country if an enabling environment is put in place for the sector to thrive. Mr. Abiru said this during a webinar hosted by the Bank on: ‘Managing Healthcare Business During… May 30, 2020 In "News" THE Group Managing Director/CEO of Polaris Bank Limited, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, has stressed the importance of staff training as the bedrock of a strong banking sector and for institutions building. October 8, 2018 In "Business" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Friday revoked the license of Skye Bank, and transferred its assets and liabilities to a newly licensed bridge bank called Polaris Bank. September 21, 2018 In "Business"