NASARAWA State government Tuesday commenced the distribution of 524, 436 assorted food items donated by a coalition against Covid-19 pandemic as palliative to the vulnerable people in the state. This is even as he warned the Covid-19 palliative committee against diverting items meant for the vulnerable and poorest in the state. Items donated include: 43, 246 cartons of indomie, 20, 590 cartons of macaroni, 21, 000bags of rice, 18, 000 bags of semovita, 240, 000 cartons of sugar, 181, 000 bags of salt and 600 gallons of vegetable oil. Speaking at the flag-off of the distribution, Governor Abdullahi Sule warned that the Palliative Committee at all levels will be held accountable for any anomaly in the distribution of the palliatives. It would be called that the Nasarawa State Government recently received essential commodities worth thirty-five (35) trucks of different food items from Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID), as part of its support to complement Government efforts in cushioning the effects of hunger in the face of COVID-19 pandemic. Governor Sule who expressed the State Government’s commitment to cushioning the plight of the people stressed the need to control the spread of COVID-19. “Today’s event is therefore in furtherance of our commitment to continue to provide succour to the vulnerable households and the poorest of the poor across the nooks and crannies of the State”. “It is important to note that these food items are to be shared to the poorest of the poor who have no source of income to cater for their daily needs. In this wise, salary earners, businessmen and other privileged people are exempted from this intervention”, Sule declared “Government has re-strengthened the palliatives distribution Committees at the Local Government, wards and polling unit levels to ensure transparency in the distribution of the palliatives. He commended the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID) and other philanthropists for the humanitarian gesture, aimed at assisting the less-privileged and vulnerable groups in the society. Indeed, this gesture is worthy of commendation. The distribution was carried out by a special Committee of Honourable Commissioners, Special Advisers, Local Government Council Chairmen and other appointees of Government. VANGUARD By David Odama, Lafia Nasarawa State government, on Tuesday, commenced the distribution of 524,436 assorted food items donated by a coalition against COVID-19 pandemic as palliative to the vulnerable people in the state. This is even as he warned the COVID-19 palliative committee against diverting items meant for the vulnerable… August 11, 2020 In "News" The Nasarawa State Government says it will deal decisively with anyone caught diverting relief items meant to cushion the effect of partial COVID-19 lockdown on vulnerable people in the state. Hajiya Fati Sabo, the state Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, gave the warning on Tuesday in Nasarawa while handing… April 21, 2020 In "News" Following the reported index cases of the ravaging coronavirus, COVID-19, in Lagos and Ogun states which has now crept into virtually all the states of the federation, President Muhammadu Buhari took the lead by announcing a lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and Federal Capital Territory as part of measures to curtail… April 16, 2020 In "News"