 Brandon Williams has signed a contract extension at Manchester United running until June 2024, with an option for another year. The England Under-20 full-back has enjoyed a breakthrough campaign at Old Trafford this season, making 33 appearances in all competitions. United resume their Europa League campaign against LASK on Wednesday, with an ankle injury to Luke Shaw meaning Williams could be key to Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s team’s hopes of success. “Signing this contract is another really proud moment for myself and my family,” the 19-year-old said. “Having been at Manchester United since I was seven years old, it’s genuinely a dream come true to be playing in the first team. “It has taken a huge amount of hard work to reach this point and it has been really special for me to break through into the squad. “I’ve learned a lot throughout the season from the manager, his coaching staff and my team-mates and I want to repay the trust that they have all shown in me. “I know that everyone at the club is working really hard every day to achieve success in the coming years and I am really excited to be a part of that.” United boss Solskjaer believes Williams’ time coming through the ranks has given him an invaluable affinity with the club. “Brandon has had an excellent first season, so we are delighted that he has signed a new contract,” he said of the youngster, who scored his maiden Premier League goal in a dramatic 3-3 draw at Sheffield United. “This new deal is a real testament to his hard work and the progress that he has made since his debut. Brandon never looked back after stepping up from the academy and, having come all the way through the system, he understands what it means to play for Manchester United. “He has all of the attributes required to be a member of this exciting young squad. He will continue to learn every day in training and we look forward to watching him develop over the coming seasons.” United will face a Europa League quarter-final against either Istanbul Basaksehir or Copenhagen, barring the unlikely scenario of LASK overturning a 5-0 first-leg deficit at Old Trafford. Fotmob Vanguard Manchester United have had a rocky ride under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer but there are signs that they could finally be turning the corner after completing a memorable league double over Manchester City. The Norwegian appeared to be bringing the good times back to Old Trafford when he took over from… March 9, 2020 In "Sports" Sunderland have appointed former Manchester United manager David Moyes to replace Sam Allardyce as boss at the Stadium of Light, the perennial Premier League strugglers said on Saturday. July 23, 2016 In "News" Jose Mourinho has sent a message to Marcus Rashford after scoring a brace in the 2-1 victory over Tottenham Hotspurs in the Premier League encounter at Old Trafford. The 22-year-old England international opened the scoring with a stinging shot that slipped under Paulo Gazzaniga, before holding his nerve from the… December 6, 2019 In "Sports"