Alhaji Rauf Olaniyan, Oyo State Deputy Governor, on Saturday said the state government’s decision to finance developmental projects through borrowings was in order. Olaniyan told newsmen in Ibadan that such borrowing would shore up the meagre monthly federal allocation and internally generated revenue internally (IGR) accrued to the state. Recall that the state government had faced criticism over a proposed N100 billion bond to finance some projects. The critics had asked why the state government was proposing another N100 billion bond after it had taken N39 billion loan to make N139 billion within two years. Olaniyan explained that the monthly federal allocation and IGR were not enough for the state to embark on developmental projects. He said that funds accruing to the state’s purse was decreasing daily, adding that the situation necessitated the need to borrow to execute developmental projects. The deputy governor faulted the comparing of the loan taken by the immediate past administration and what the present administration has taken since inception. Olaniyan said that the immediate past administration need not borrow at all, considering the several funds accrued to it, such Paris club, excess crude oil and some overpayment refunded to it. He said that those funds accrued to the immediate past administration were responsible for the projects executed, “which are not available now’’. “The last administration does not need to borrow money then, because there was enough money. “They have the Paris club, excess crude oil and some overpayment refund made to Oyo state government. “There is nothing like that now. “The people of Oyo state have elected us, they should give us the chance; we will not betray them. “They should give us the support to deliver,’’ Olaniyan said. The deputy governor also congratulated Muslims across the state, urging the people to continue to leave in peace and harmony. “We should continue to leave in peace; Oyo state belongs to all of us,’’ he said. Vanguard Alhaji Rauf Olaniyan, Oyo State Deputy Governor, on Saturday, said it was unfair to compare the current administration of the state with the previous one, as the funds available then were no longer accessible. August 2, 2020 In "News" This is not the first time states owe workers. In 2003, then Economic Adviser to President Olusegun Obasanjo, Professor Charles Soludo, said that most state governments have signed away their future statutory allocations to contractors whom they owe. Explaining many states are bankrupt and cannot fund developmental projects, Soludo said… June 15, 2015 In "Finance" ...Says Oyo can't get out of infrastructural deficit without taking loans By Adeola Badru FOLLOWING the backlashes that greeted the issuance of the N100 billion bond by the Oyo State government, Governor Seyi Makinde, has disclosed that the only way the state could break the jinx of the infrastructural deficit… July 29, 2020 In "News"