Chairman, Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress APC, Governor Mai Mala Buni has said the Party would only accept credible candidates for the October 31 concurrent legislative by-elections scheduled to be conducted across eight states of the Federation. Buni who was represented by the Secretary of the APC Caretaker Committee, Senator John Akpan Udoedeghe stated this while inaugurating the Party’s Screening and Appeal Committees for the by-elections at the APC National Secretariat, Abuja. The Committees are saddled with the responsibility of screening APC Candidates for the by-elections. He stated that the Party was moving in a new direction and would ensure that things were done properly. Buni also charged members of the Committees to be fair to all the aspirants and ensure that only those with impeccable records in their careers were chosen as APC candidates. Responding on behalf of the other members, Prof. Stephen Ocheni assured that the members of the Screening and Appeal Committees would discharge their assignment with fairness and a sense of responsibility. Ocheni who was a former Minister expressed gratitude to the national leadership of the Party for the confidence reposed in them and for giving them the task to perform on behalf of the Party. Vanguard News Nigeria By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress APC has named Kogi State, Yahaya Bello as head of its Governorship Primary Election Committee for the July 20 exercise in Ondo State. Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party,… July 17, 2020 In "Politics" ...Party now into comedy, not opposition, says APC chieftain By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The All Progressives Congress (APC) has lambasted the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for attempting to dabble into its internal affairs, saying it would never copy the opposition party's style of trampling on its own Constitution. "While… June 28, 2020 In "Politics" The All Progressives Congress (APC) has attributed the return of Sen. Barnabas Gemade and the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, to the successful reconciliation efforts of the APC Caretaker Committee led by Gov. Mai Mala Buni of Yobe. August 2, 2020 In "News"