ABUJA — PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari is currently participating in a virtual Extraordinary Session of the Economic Community of West Africa States, ECOWAS, Authority of Heads of State and Government on the socio-political crisis in Mali. The session, which is being held through video conference, was convened following the recent mutiny by the nation’s military on Tuesday. Also participating at the virtual meeting with President Buhari from the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja are the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Mr Boss Mustapha; Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; Minister of State, Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Zubairu Dada; Minister of Defence, Major General Bashir Magashi (retd); National Security Adviser, NSA, Major General Babagana Monguno (retd); the Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, NIA, Ahmed Rufa’i; and the Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari. Recall that rebel forces, on Tuesday afternoon, arrested President Ibrahim Keita of Mali and his Prime Minister, Boubou Cisse, and took them to a military base on the outskirts of Bamako, which they had seized that morning. Keita later reportedly announced early Wednesday that he had resigned to avert “bloodshed.” ECOWAS, in a swift reaction, condemned the mutiny and vowed stiff sanctions against Mali, among which it said would be closure of land and air borders of West African neighbours against the country and closure of diplomatic missions. Vanguard News Nigeria Resignation of 31 Parliamentarians whose elections're contested Release of abducted opposition leader By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja The ECOWAS, Authority of Heads of State and Government on Monday rejected the call for the resignation of the Malian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, by the opposition group in the country. The ECOWAS… July 27, 2020 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari is expected to leave Abuja on Saturday to attend the one-day Economic Community of West African States, ECOWAS, Heads of State and Government Extraordinary Summit on Counter-Terrorism, in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. September 13, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari will on Sunday travel to Lome, the capital of Togo to attend the Joint ECOWAS/ECCAS Summit which will deliberate on common security threats to countries in West Africa and members of the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS). July 28, 2018 In "News"