The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), says it will suspend the Edo and Ondo governorship election process if the actions of political actors led to a breakdown of law and order. Mr Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, announced this on Thursday in Abuja after a meeting where stakeholders deliberated on a number of issues, including preparations for the elections. Okoye said that the commission had observed with deep concern, the escalating levels of violent actions and incendiary statements by political parties, candidates and their supporters, in the run-up to the elections. “These actions include destruction of opponents’ campaign materials such as billboards, violent campaigns and use of offensive language. “It is important for political parties, candidates and their supporters to keep in mind that there are extant laws and regulations that must be adhered to, during campaigns. “The commission will not shirk its responsibility to enforce the rules of the game. “Consequently, parties and candidates must, on no account, underestimate the resolve of the commission to enforce the rules and regulations and apply appropriate sanctions against those who choose to break them. “The commission remains determined to conduct peaceful elections in the two states and in the outstanding National and State Assembly bye-elections.” Okoye said that political parties must realise that Edo and Ondo governorship elections were taking place at a time of a global pandemic and the commission was working assiduously to observe and comply with all health and safety protocols issued by the commission and health authorities. He said that with the pandemic taking its toll on the citizenry, the people of Edo and Ondo states must be saved from the added burden of violent and raucous elections. “Political parties must remember that Edo and Ondo governorship elections have strict constitutional and statutory timelines and threats of violence or actual violence can disrupt those timelines and create a constitutional crisis. “The commission will continue to engage stakeholders in the two states on the need for free, fair, safe and peaceful elections, given that it has committed enormous public resources in preparing for them. “The commission will view gravely, any disruptive actions by political actors,” he warned. Okoye said that the commission would work with, and collaborate with the security agencies to contain incidents or threats of violence before and during the elections. “Regulatory agencies with roles in the elections, especially those dealing with insecurity, hate speech and abuse of mass media, must step up their activities and ensure that people caught breaking the law were held to account,” he said. The commission reassured the people of Edo and Ondo of its determination to conduct credible and safe elections in the two states, and urged residents to support the process. NAN Vanguard News Nigeria ABUJA: The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has lamented the growing resort to violence and incendiary remarks by political actors ahead of the Edo and Ondo governorship elections, warning that any disruption of the process could alter the electoral timelines thereby leading to a constitutional crisis. August 6, 2020 In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Tuesday said that 14 political parties submitted nominations for Edo governorship election. The commission disclosed this in a statement issued in Abuja by Mr Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC). Okoye said that the particulars of… July 1, 2020 In "Politics" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has published the final list of candidates for the Sept. 19 Governorship Election in Edo State. The commission disclosed this in a statement issued by Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, in Abuja on Saturday. The list of… July 19, 2020 In "Politics"