A suspected serial killer, Sunday Shodipe, who escaped the Oyo State police custody has been re-arrested. Shodipe was earlier arrested by the Oyo State Police Command in connection with serial killings in Akinyele Local Government Area of the state. According to the police command through its Public Relations Officer, SP Fadeyi Olugbenga, the suspect was said to have escaped on 11th August. The Oyo State House of Assembly had called on the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to order a thorough investigation into the escape of Sunday Shodipe, the suspected serial killer in Akinyele Local Government Area of the state. Some angry youths had also marched to the Police headquarters at Eleyele, Ibadan, Oyo State capital to register their grievances over the escape of a serial killer, Sunday Shodipe from police custody. The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu Adamu, deployed additional investigative aids to Oyo State to complement the efforts of the state’s Police Command in the ongoing manhunt and efforts aimed at re-arresting Shodipe. The Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, CP Joe Nwachukwu Enwonwu, had said N500,000 awaits anyone who can give useful information on the whereabouts of the serial killer. Vanguard News Nigeria. ...calls on Gov Makinde to ensure the speedy take-off of Amotekun By Adeola Badru THE Oyo State House of Assembly, yesterday, called on the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to order a thorough investigation into the escape of Sunday Shodipe, the suspected serial killer in Akinyele Local Government Area of… August 17, 2020 In "News" By Adeola Badru THE Oyo State Police Command, Sunday, confirmed the escape of a notorious Akinyele serial killer, Sunday Shodipe from their custody. The Commissioner of Police in the state, CP Nwachukwu Enwonwu, in a statement made available to newsmen, through the state's Police Public Relations Officer, SP Olugbenga Fadeyi,… August 16, 2020 In "News" By Ola Ajayi -Ibadan A suspected killer, Sunday Shodipo who was arrested by the Oyo State Police Command in connection with serial killings in Akinyele Local Government Area of the state has escaped from custody. According to the police command through the Public Relations Officer of the command, SP Fadeyi… August 17, 2020 In "News"