The Edo People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has been described as a party of “one-day, one-fib”; and the Edo people asked to ignore the latest lie from that stable. According to the Chairman, Edo State APC Media Campaign Council, Mr John Mayaki, “the PDP’s latest lie was the allegation that the APC planned to “write results”, and smuggle in those results according to a so-called “Hope Uzodinma template”. “First of all, it would be interesting to know what PDP means by ‘Hope Uzodinma template’,” Mayaki said in his reaction. “But you can see how that party dissipates its energy on laughable lies when it should focus on telling Edo people what it would do differently, from its present four years of near-absolute waste.” Mayaki said the cocktail of lies was hardly surprising, for the one who lacks solid facts to build his case, would resort to lies to deceive. The APC campaign spokesperson, however, held that the Edo people were free to contrast the APC campaign of issues, from its SIMPLE Agenda to PDP’s daily dose of what he called “one-day, one-fib.” “In a way, you’ve got to pity these guys,” he said. “If you’re around for four years, and you have little to point to, why would you not be dreaming ‘rigging’, to create an excuse, and harvest pity, for sure thumping defeat to come?” Mayaki said APC will win and win big on September 19, and everything, from its very successful campaigns, is pointing to that. “Take it from me: we’re winning on September 19 and we’re winning big. We’ll win by the sheer winnability of our ideas and the voter acceptance of our life-changing programmes. For those, the Edo people will reward us handsomely with their votes.” Mayaki however volunteered that PDP’s resort to lies and wild rumours is a spiritual punishment for wasting the time of the Edo people for four years, and for not adding value to Edo lives. He stressed that the PDP cocktail of lies has helped the POI campaign to further focus on its own campaign of facts, figures and sound programmes, borne out of the SIMPLE yet far-reaching agenda. “We encourage the PDP to continue misleading and misguiding itself with wild rumours. We know the voters are not deceived. So, we will continue on our own approach, which has proved a hit with our people, everywhere campaign. On September 19,” he continued, “our solid programmes will reap votes, while the PDP lies will harvest tears.” He thanked Edo voters for their warm and enthusiastic reception so far and urged them to keep up the faith and get the PVC ready vote out Governor Obaseki, with a vengeance on September 19. Vanguard News Nigeria The People's Democratic Party (PDP) should quit hallucinating and face serious campaigning, the Edo APC has said. Only an issue-based campaign, which helps the Edo electorate to clearly make their choice on September 19, will help everyone now, not wild rumours, which unfortunately have become the jittery PDP's pastime, the… August 22, 2020 In "Edo Decides" By Gabriel Enogholase AHEAD of the Edo State governorship election slated for 19, September 2020, the State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has alleged that it has uncovered a plot by its APC counterpart to write fake election results in the comfort of hotel rooms and smuggled same… August 23, 2020 In "Edo Decides" BENIN CITY—Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and Chairman of the PDP Edo State Governorship Campaign Council, has described Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Edo State governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress, APC, as a bad product which cannot be sold to the good and discerning people of Edo State. July 31, 2020 In "Politics"