Kwara State Government has received N100m World Bank grant to strengthen its  management of the COVID-19 in the state. According to the statement issued by the Spokesperson of Covid-19 Technical committee in the state, Rafiu Ajakaye on Saturday, “Kwara State is one of the few states that have met the criteria laid down by NCDC and World Bank, hence this has triggered the disbursement of N100Million to the State,” “the fund was channelled through the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) after the state had met certain criteria.” The statement added that,”The disbursement of the fund is part of the ongoing World Bank-assisted Regional Disease Surveillance System Enhancement (REDISSE) project, which is coordinated by the NCDC to bridge funding gap at the state levels for the implementation of the COVID-19 response and incidence action plan. Kwara is one of the first few states to receive the fund after it was certified fit for the financial support on account of its COVID-19 efforts. The REDISSE project is to implement critical and time sensitive priority activities related to the pandemic. “The COVID-19 Response Fund for the States will cover the priority activities in areas such as Trainings, Workshops, Meetings, Seminar, Procurement of Goods & Services, Operating costs, Consultancy services/Non-consultancy,” the statement added stressing that the funds are meant for activities in the approved Incident Action Plan. Vanguard News Nigeria. The management of the Rural Electrification Agency, REA, said it has commenced emergency provision of solar mini-grid solutions in Primary Health Centres, COVID-19 isolation centres and NCDC reference laboratories across the country. April 5, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has provided N102.5 billion in resources for direct interventions in the country’s healthcare sector, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, has said. April 6, 2020 In "News" By Rasheed Sobowale The most populous nation in Africa, Nigeria, has on Thursday recorded 350 new cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), increasing the total number of confirmed cases to 11, 516. Announcing the new cases via its official twitter handle, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) indicated the… June 5, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"