An Abeokuta High Court on Wednesday sentenced a 36-year-old man, Ugochukwu Obiakor to 25 years imprisonment for raping an 11-year- old girl. Obiakor, who pleaded not guilty to the one-count charge was convicted for having sexual intercourse with an 11 years old girl. Delivering her judgment, Hon Justice Mosunmola Dipeolu, the Chief Judge of Ogun State, held that all pieces of evidence presented before the court by the prosecution was tenable and found the convict guilty as charged. Dipeolu, however, sentenced Obiakor to 25 years Imprisonment with hard labour. The prosecution counsel, Mr James Mafe, Director of Legal Drafting, had earlier told the court during the trial that the convict committed the offence on Sept. 4, 2017, at Omu- Aleku Village in Mowe area of Ogun. Mafe said the convict forcefully had sexual intercourse with an 11-year-old girl (name withheld) and the medical results conducted revealed that the victim hymen and vagina laceration was broken. According to him, the victim was in her mother’s shop when the convict came to buy bread and beverage from her mother and later came back when the mother left the shop. He said Obiakor, told the little girl that her mother was owing him money, which she told him to come back, but immediately, he opened the shop burglary and dragged the victim to an uncompleted building beside the shop and raped her. The prosecution counsel, however, said the offences committed contravened Section 32 of the Child Right laws of Ogun 2006. Vanguard James Ogunnaike An Abeokuta High Court on Tuesday sentenced a 35-year-old man, Adekunle Olalere to life imprisonment for raping a two years old girl. Olalere who resides at No. 18, Bashorun Street, Off Unity Road, Olowotedo in Mowe, Ogun State, was convicted on a one-count charge of having sexual intercourse… July 21, 2020 In "News" …Police arrest headmaster for allegedly raping 10-year-old pupil in Yobe ….Police arrest man, 39, for allegedly raping 9-year-old step-daughter in Adamawa As an Abeokuta High Court sentenced a 35-year-old man Adekunle Olalere to life imprisonment for defiling a two-year-old girl, the Police in Yobe paraded an Assistant Headmaster, for allegedly… July 22, 2020 In "Metro" An Ikeja High Court on Wednesday sentenced a 33-year-old bricklayer, Taoreed Oseni, to 12 years imprisonment for raping an 18-year-old hawker at a public toilet. July 15, 2015 In "News"