The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Edo, has decried the recurring politically motivated attacks and violence during campaigns by supporters of political parties in the state. Mr Chris Nehikhare, State Publicity Secretary of the party,  made the position of the party known during the party’s weekly media briefing in Benin on Sunday. Nehikhare said the party was disappointed with the development, adding that those perpetrating violence were doing so to make room for the postponement of the Sept. 19, governorship election in the state. He called on political parties to engage in issue-based campaigns and shun violence and attacks on innocent citizens. He noted that the Edo people were sophisticated and better informed of development in the state, adding that the state was a peaceful state and must remain peaceful and calm. He, therefore, called on the people of the state not to be scared as the police were up in their task of arresting and investigating those perpetrating violence in the state. He also appealed to the people of the state to continue to maintain their peaceful mood, and not to be provoked or intimidated. He further appreciated the people for their support for the party’s candidate, Gov. Godwin Obaseki, adding that the governor was doing all he was doing for the general good of the people. Vanguard News By Gabriel Enogholase & Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo State, alleged that the redeployment of the Commandant, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in the state, Adeyinka Ayinla, was politically motivated by the  APC to pave way for the perfection of their… August 21, 2020 In "News" The Bayelsa State Police Command and the state government have cautioned political parties in the state to conduct themselves in a manner that will not cause crisis in the state during and after the December 5 governorship election. November 25, 2015 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo has said neither the party nor the state government was responsible for the damage or removal of the All Progressive Congress (APC) candidate’s billboards. The state PDP Publicity Secretary, Mr Chris Nehikhare, said this while briefing newsmen on Sunday in Benin. The APC,… July 20, 2020 In "News"