President Muhmmadu Buhari on Wednesday swore-in 12 Permanent Secretaries at the Council Chambers, Presidential Villa, Abuja. The swearing-in ceremony started about 10 am before the commencement of the 13th weekly virtual Federal Executive Council, FEC, meeting. The Permanent Secretaries were appointed in June in a statement issued by the Head of Service of the Federation (HoSF), Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan. The newly appointed Permanent Secretaries and their states are: Belgore Shuaib Mohammad Lomido, Kwara; Akinlade Oluwatoyin, Kogi; Ekpa Anthonia Akpabio, Cross River; Alkali Bashir Nura, Kano; Ardo Babayo Kumo, Gombe and Anyanwutaku Adaora lfeoma, Anambra. Others are: Udoh Moniloja Omokunmi, Oyo; Hussaini Babangida, Jigawa; Mohammed Aliyu Ganda, Sokoto; Mahmuda Mamman, Yobe; Meribole Emmanuel Chukwuemeka, Abia and Tarfa Yerima Peter Adamawa. The President also swore in commissioners for Federal Civil Service Commission, Idahagbon Henry and Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission, Usman Hassan. Present at the Council Chamber for the exercise and the FEC meeting are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha, the Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, the National Security Adviser, NSA Major General Babagana Monguno (retd) and the Head of Service of the Federation, Yemi-Esan. Ministers physically present at the council meeting are Niger Delta, Godswill Akpabio, the Attorney-General and Minister for Justice, Abubakar Malami; Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed; and Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mohammed Bello, Water Resources, Sulieman Adamu. Some ministers are joining via video from their various offices. Vanguard reliably gathered that the Interim Management Committee, IMC of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC led by its acting Managing Director, Prof. Kemebradikumo Pondei will be making preparations on the ongoing forensic auditing of the commission. Vanguard News Nigeria. ABUJA----PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday swore in eight new permanent secretaries at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. February 20, 2019 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday swore-in the nine newly appointed Permanent Secretaries including, Dr. Evelyn Ngige,wife of the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige. The swearing-in ceremony took place at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja, before the commencement of the weekly… December 18, 2019 In "Politics" ABUJA—PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari, has written to the Senate, requesting for the screening and confirmation of nine Resident Electoral Commissioners appointed for the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. December 21, 2017 In "News"