As sports activities gradually make its way back after several months of lockdown, global brand in electronics, LG has said its  OLED televisions can display sports footages in unprecedented details. It says such capability enlivens sports on television. General Manager, Home  Entertainment  Division at LG Electronics West Africa, Mr.  Vanjamin Kim said bigger displays which OLED TV offers can deliver wider viewing angles, so family and friends can watch a game together in a splendid atmosphere He said: “OLED delivers the widest viewing angles in the game, the 88-inch LG SIGNATURE OLED 8K TV is the pinnacle of home spectating, while its smaller 48-inch sibling delivers the same wide viewing angle to smaller rooms. “With LG OLED’s self-emitting pixels in 4K and 8K, viewers have the prospect of seeing every feature, down to each blade of grass, while decreasing motion blur and flickering as every pixel illuminates independently. “The TVs possesses AI Sound Pro and up-mix game audio for realistic sport sounds, they are also Bluetooth Surround Ready for easy connection with LG’s powerful XBOOM speakers or wide selection of sound bars. “For sports, gray uniformity is everything. Staring at the same color for hours means a TV must maintain a single block of color at a realistic brightness and without distracting dark patches. LG OLED TVs has continued to garner rave reviews for best-in-class uniformity,”  Kim  said. He noted LG OLED owners are assured of experiencing superior 8K via LG’s upscaling technology, which uses deep learning to deliver vivid and accurate 8K images to near perfection. “It’s obvious a TV was designed with fans in mind. If it features Sports Alert notifications! New to LG TVs, users are updated on their team’s latest news and kick-off times, so not even a second of exciting play is missed. And with all the technology in today’s TVs, setting up a TV correctly for a big match would normally be a chore. “However, with LG OLED TVs’ ±9 Gen3 AI Processor, the TV does most of the hard work for you by cleverly detecting when you’re watching sports and then optimizing picture quality accordingly via Auto Genre Selection. Basketball and its fast-paced action can make motion blur and flickering more pronounced on a regular TV,”  Kim  said. LG’s new OLED Motion Pro and TruMotion, on top of light-speed 120Hz response time, was made to ensure heightened image accuracy and precision for viewers to easily follow small objects, catching every basket, goal and score. Mr. Kim explained that LG OLED is taking some sports virtual, with an all-new take on competitive racing. “Pro racing drivers are using OLED-powered simulators to compete in Australia’s BP Supercars All Stars Eseries, LG partnering with Kelly Racing to give their drivers the best chance to claim its inaugural title. Using LG OLED TVs, the impressive racing simulator achieves realistic racing experiences that every racer can easily relate to. VANGUARD By Prince Osuagwu Less is more may sound like a cliché, but in this new age of digital technology and connectivity, people are living more conscious lifestyles and paying more attention to energy usage and waste management. In this new decade, minimalists are focusing on sustainable living. Minimalism is a… March 11, 2020 In "Technology" It is a popular saying that a picture is worth a thousand words. But what about a picture that is a thousand times faster than the regular Liquid Electric Display, LED television? This is how you define LG’s new 4k OLED TV. August 3, 2016 In "Technology" While TV manufacturers are innovating endlessly to be the market leader, South Korean tech giant, LG Electronics is pushing hard in OLED technology. August 20, 2017 In "Technology"