The All Progressives Congress, APC, has asked security agencies in the country to halt what it described as plans by the Peoples Democratic Party PDP to rig the September 19 governorship election in Edo State. “Our security services must do everything to stop the PDP’s plan to unleash violence, intimidate voters and buy votes during the election. Come September 19, votes will count and the will of the Edo electorate will prevail”, APC said in a statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr Yekini Nabena. The party noted that the recent communique issued by the PDP Governors’ Forum enjoined the President, INEC and security agencies to “play an impartial role” in the forthcoming governorship elections in Edo and Ondo States. However, APC said “for a Party whose stock-in-trade remains cloning of Permanent Voters Cards PVCs, stealing card readers, voter intimidation, thuggery and vote-buying as witnessed during the 2019 General Elections, the PDP’s call is dubious and a smokescreen for their real and sinister intentions”. It noted that the real issue is how the Edo State treasury “has been criminally converted to a political slush fund as exposed by the widely reported faceoff between Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shuaibu over release of funds for the PDP governorship campaign”. “Again, as chairman of the Edo State PDP governorship Campaign Council, the violence being threatened by the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike ahead of the September 19 Edo governorship election are the real issues. Wike has promised to “make sure that everything needed is done” to foist the PDP governorship candidate on the good people of Edo State. “There are already credible reports of Wike’s plan to import thugs from neighbouring states to achieve their rigging plot. We reiterate that he will not succeed. We stand with the good people of Edo state in calling on our security services not to allow the PDP and Wike turn Edo State into a killing field”, the APC added. VANGUARD THE ruling APC and PDP were, weekend, locked in allegations and counter-allegations against each other over moves to rig the Wednesday governorship election and urged the security agencies to up their game to ensure credible and peaceful poll. September 26, 2016 In "Edo election 2016" SEVERAL persons were, yesterday, injured as supporters of the two main political parties in the country, All Progressives Congress, APC, and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, clashed near the palace of the Oba of Benin when PDP governors, led by the Chairman of the PDP Campaign Council, Governor Nyesom Wike,… July 26, 2020 In "News" EDO State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has said that the security advice upon which the Independent National Electoral Commission,INEC, postponed the governorship election earlier scheduled for today was authored in connivance with the All Progressives Congress, APC. September 10, 2016 In "Edo election 2016"