The Bayelsa State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja, on Monday, nullified the election of Governor Duoye Diri. The Justice Ibrahim Sirajo-led panel voided the outcome of the gubernatorial election that held in the state on November 16, 2019, over the exclusion of one of the registered political parties, Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party, ANDP, in the contest. ANDP had in a petition it lodged before the tribunal, contended that it was unlawfully excluded from participating in the election by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, despite the fact that it fulfilled all the statutory requirements. The tribunal said it found merit in the petition and consequently nullified the election and ordered INEC to conduct a bye-election in the state within 90 days. The verdict came barely two days after the tribunal dismissed as lacking in merit, three other petitions that sought to sack governor Diri on the premise that his Deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, submitted forged NYSC certificate to INEC for the purpose of the election. The dismissed petitions were brought before the tribunal by Alliance for Democracy, AD, and its candidate, Owei Woniwei, United Peoples Congress, UPC, and its candidate, Ibiene Stephen, as well as that of candidate of the Liberation Movement, LM, Vijah Opuama. It will be recalled that though Diri of the PDP came second in the governorship election, he was later declared the winner after the Supreme Court, in judgement on February 13, disqualified the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, David Lyon, following discrepancies in documents his deputy, Biobarakuma Degi-Eremieoyo, attached to the Form CF001 he submitted to INEC. Vanguard By Ikechukwu Nnochiri The Bayelsa State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja has concluded the hearing and reserved its judgement on the petition seeking to sack Governor Duoye Diri and his Deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo. The governorship candidate of Liberation Movement, LM, in Bayelsa State, Vijah Opuama, had in… July 22, 2020 In "News" ...dismisses petitions by AD, UPC, LM candidates as lacking in merit By Ikechukwu Nnochiri - Abuja The Bayelsa State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal, on Saturday, upheld the election of Governor Duoye Diri and his Deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo. The Justice Ibrahim Sirajo-led three-member panel tribunal which conducted its proceedings in Abuja, in… August 15, 2020 In "Politics" By Ikechukwu Nnochiri ABUJA -- The Bayelsa State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal, on Saturday, upheld the election of Governor Duoye Diri and his Deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo. The Justice Ibrahim Sirajo-led three-member panel tribunal, in a unanimous decision, dismissed the first petition that was filed by the Alliance for Democracy,… August 16, 2020 In "Politics"