THE lingering crisis rocking the All Progressive Congress, APC, inward 6, Ethiope West Local Government Area, Delta State, has deepened, following the purported suspension of the state woman leader of the party, Mrs Janet Oyubu. Reacting to the development, some stakeholders of the party in the ward, said they were not aware of the suspension of the woman leader, saying no meeting where the decision to remove her from office was held. Chairman, Elder and Leaders Forum, Mr Josaih  Akporkighe said the news of the woman leader’s removal came to them as a rude shock, alleging that “we leant that our excos have been brainwashed and made to put their signatures on a document they can not stand to defend when cross-examined individually and we say no to that”. Also speaking, Assistant Youth Leader of the Ward, Mr Agbagu Frank, said Oyubu remained the state woman leader, reiterating that nobody could remove her from office. Meanwhile, Mrs Janet Oyubu has said she did not receive any letter of suspension. She, however, said she was aware of plans to remove her illegally. Vanguard News By Perez Brisibe THE cold war among members of the State Working Committee, SWC of the All Progressives Congress, APC in Delta State, nosedived Sunday as some members of the committee insisted that the purported sacking of the chairman of the party, Jones Erue stands with a former deputy chairman… August 16, 2020 In "Politics" *It is null and void – Embattled Deputy Chair Perez Brisibe A fresh crisis is currently brewing in the Delta State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, APC, as the party says it has allegedly suspended its Deputy Chairman, Elvis Ayomanor for reasons the party said contravenes its constitution including… February 4, 2020 In "Politics" “That is why I asked that question; how Hon. Dogara, regarded an angel, yesterday, had suddenly become a demon today. It is the act of democratization and it means that APC is doing well; we are meticulous and the glory goes to God. They blew it open that the budget… August 27, 2016 In "News"