Paris Saint-Germain have been boosted ahead of their Champions League quarter-final against Atalanta with Thomas Tuchel confirming Kylian Mbappe is set to play a role. Mbappe was expected to miss the game after he sustained a sprained ankle and ligament damage in PSG’s Coupe de France final victory over Saint-Etienne on July 24. The World Cup winner was expected to be sidelined for at least three weeks, but Tuchel revealed he will be available for Wednesday’s knockout clash at Estadio da Luz provided he gets through Tuesday’s training session unscathed. However, the PSG boss suggested Mbappe will only be used as a substitute. “If Mbappe trains well today and nothing unusual happens, he will play tomorrow,” Tuchel said at a pre-match news conference. “We are very happy that he is with the group and we have the opportunity to finish the match with him.” Marco Verratti will not feature against Atalanta, however, having sustained a calf injury. The midfielder did not join his team-mates for a training camp in Faro and Tuchel thinks it would be tough for him to return for the semi-finals if PSG progress. “For Marco, it will be very, very tight for the semi-finals. It’s really unlucky. He is going to speed up his work and we will try [to get him fit],” he said. Fotmob Vanguard Kylian Mbappe requires "a miracle" to have a chance of playing in Paris Saint-Germain's Champions League quarter-final against Atalanta, according to boss Thomas Tuchel. The France international sprained his ankle in last week's Coupe de France final victory over Saint-Etienne and scans on Monday revealed he will miss around three… July 31, 2020 In "Sports" Kylian Mbappe will meet with Paris Saint Germain's medical team before a decision is made on whether he will be on the bench to face Atalanta in the Champions League, says Thomas Tuchel. The France superstar suffered a serious ankle sprain in PSG's 1-0 Coupe de France final victory over… August 6, 2020 In "Sports" Marco Verratti was named in Paris Saint-Germain's squad to prepare for the Champions League quarter-final against Atalanta despite ongoing concerns over his fitness. The Italy international injured his calf in training and was missing for a 1-0 friendly win over Sochaux on Wednesday. Head coach Thomas Tuchel admitted he was… August 9, 2020 In "Sports"