Former Super Eagles defender Chidi Nwanu has taken a diversion from the world of football and has now gone into Ministering of the gospel. The ex-Enyimba defender made the revelation in an exclusive and extensive interview with Vanguard Sports. When asked what he was currently involved in, he replied : ”I am in ministry. That is why I said, a team that has all these fetish things will not do well. And that is what some players do and they have destroyed a lot of talents. That is what Nigeria needs to look into; moral discipline and moral behaviour. If you look at the way we carry ourselves and project ourselves here, there is a lot of difference between us and our European counterparts. The Europeans play with all their hearts, but we take it easy as if there is nothing at stake.” When asked if he would accept an offer to coach the Super Eagles, he said:  ”I have always answered this question in a particular way. To be a coach is not the only way you can help a team to succeed. There are many other ways. Like in Europe here, they have motivational speakers to stir up their spirits. The one that is emotionally down, maybe he finds himself not playing well, he goes through that process in order to get well. Somebody can be in the technical team, helping the coach to select players in their various positions. If you look at some teams today, they seem to have players who play in the same position but scattered in different positions. When you do that, you can’t have a strong team. One can help the national team in the area of fitness, welfare, disciplinary aspect because some players could be better players if they were disciplined, etc. Sometimes it could be bad lifestyles and you help them.” Vanguard Former Super Eagles and Anderlecht defender Chidi Nwanu has revealed how a dressing room clash with the so-called mafia in the Super Eagles got him frozen out from team selection. In an interview with Vanguard Sports, the defender turned preacher, when asked about the state of affairs in the… August 23, 2020 In "Sports" Former Super Eagles and Anderlecht defender Chidi Nwanu has spoken on the gang-up against former Nigeria coach, Clemens Westerhof at the USA 94 world cup, and how it hindered the team's progression at the tournament, In an interview with Vanguard Sports, Nwanu was asked about the belief that if not… August 22, 2020 In "Sports" Super Eagles of Nigeria defender Chidi Nwanu has taken a swipe at former coach of the Nigerian senior men's football team, Bonfrere Jo. Responding to a question in an interview with Vanguard Sports concerning the allegation by Bonfrere that former coach Westerhof sold Nigeria out at the round of 16… August 23, 2020 In "Sports"