AS speculations continue to trail the health condition of Mallam Mamman Daura, a nephew of the President, Muhammadu Buhari who has reportedly flown abroad for urgent medical treatment, a family source has said that the trip was a routine one that was long-planned. An online news platform had reported that Daura, known to be one of the powerful men behind the Buhari Presidency, was flown to the United Kingdom. “Daura, 79, was said to have been flown in a private jet to the UK on Wednesday after exhibiting respiratory difficulties with symptoms similar to coronavirus since last Friday,” the report had stated. But a source close to the family who spoke to Vanguard on the condition of anonymity said that there was no truth in the report which alleged that Mallam Daura exhibited respiratory difficulties with symptoms similar to COVID-19 pandemic. According to the source, “He (Mamman Daura) is there (in London) on a routine trip, it was long-planned. There is nothing wrong with Mamman Daura. You should ignore the online platform.” Vanguard reports that Daura’s routine trip came at a time the Federal Government was yet to lift the ban imposed on international flights as one of the ways of curtailing the further spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria. The Federal government had on Monday announced that international flights will resume August 29, 2020. Vanguard News Nigeria Nigerians across the board under the auspices of Oil and Solid Mineral Producing Area Landlords’ Association of Nigeria (OMPALAN) has expressed its respect and support for Mallam Mamman Daura against the trending news of domestic crisis rocking the nation’s corridors of power. October 27, 2019 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated veteran journalist, Baba Mamman Daura, as he clocks 80 years. President Buhari in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu on Saturday said that on the auspicious occasion of 80th birthday of Baba Mamman Daura,… November 10, 2019 In "News" A university Don, Professor Benjamin Chukuwma Ozumba ,has described late Muntari Dauda Daura, a younger brother to elder statesman Mallam Mamman Daura as a patriot who rendered selfless service to Nigeria. May 11, 2020 In "News"