Owing to the facilitation of the production of about 2600 movies on a yearly basis, Nollywood has grown to become one of the largest entertainment industries in the world. The industry is a rather inclusive one as it does not just cover film production but also extends to the accounts of the daily life of the artists regardless of whether or not it is controversial. Nollywood Post, an online entertainment publication focusing on Nollywood, makes available to the Nigerian entertainment audience a platform to access information about the industry. On the website, content is released under six different categories: Reviews, interviews, Actozs, The List, TV and News. This allows for comprehensive coverage of all that goes on in the industry. They are the point of call for interviews on several A-list actors in show business. Their content gives audience insights into the background and career journey of beloved actors and consequently inspire aspiring artists. In addition to publishing exclusive interviews, Nollywood Post will provide the audience with lists of the top Nigerian movies to anticipate as well as really juicy gist from reliable sources. Jonathan’s administration was reputed to be the only successive administration in the country that heavily invested in the industry. While his administration lasted, the industry benefitted enormously from the initial $200 million loan scheme which he created in 2010, to support filmmakers in boosting the quality of their production. August 22, 2015 In "Home Video People" It has been well over a year since PricewaterhouseCoopers Nigeria stated their vision for the Nigerian film industry of the future, predicting that the major industry would continue to expand both its domestic and global influence. PwC’s spotlight in July 2017 on the Nigerian film industry, widely known as Nollywood,… November 29, 2018 In "Entertainment" Young boys and girls have pocketed Nollywood and sent veteran actors into forced retirement. These old actors are now living in abject poverty due to inactivity. Some of them facing avoidable deaths. But you see, there is nothing bad in adopting Nollywood as name for Nigeria film industry, what I… June 6, 2015 In "News"