The Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) has issued a statement commending the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) for withdrawing the Kaduna state Governor Nasiru Elrufai’s invitation to address its National Conference coming up later in the month. The statement which was signed by the group’s president, Ibrahim Musa, on Thursday night reads in part: “The Islamic Movement noted that Governor El-Rufai is the most unsuitable person to talk to a body of learned men considering his legendary disrespect for the rule of law, blatant abuses of fundamental rights and intolerance to opposing views. “El-Rufai has been an agent of impunity and division who supports extra-judicial killings and building of mass graves. “He, in collaboration with officers of the Nigerian army, attacked members of the Islamic Movement, without recourse to law, leading to the gruesome extrajudicial murder of at least 347 members of the Movement (by the government’s own admission) in December 2015 and hurriedly buried them in mass graves. “Despite the open confession by the Secretary to the Kaduna State Government, Alhaji Lawal Balarabe Abbas before a Judicial Commission of Inquiry, governor el-Rufai has refused to prosecute the criminal elements who perpetrated these crimes, but rather paradoxically filed charges of conspiracy and culpable homicide against over 250 members of the IMN at Kaduna state high courts. “Although the Kaduna high courts have since discharged and acquitted all of them, governor el-Rufai has continued to seek further ways to subjugate and persecute members and leadership of the Movement in contravention of his oath of office to “do right to all manners of people according to law, without fear or favour, affection or ill-will…” Certainly, such a person must not be promoted or allowed to address an Association of learned men, whose motto is “Promoting the Rule of Law.” We therefore salute your unique courage to stand firmly on the path of what you profess to promote and stamp out – impunity and gross abuse of human rights in our beloved country, which loudly proclaims to operate under the rule of law. Vanguard The Islamic Movement in Nigeria, banned in Kaduna State three weeks ago by Governor Nasir el-Rufai, has accused the governor of being the jury and at the same the prosecutor in their case. October 21, 2016 In "News" KADUNA—Barely three days after Governor Nasir El-Rufai declared the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, IMN, known as Nigerian Shiites illegal, he has called on Kaduna State Commissioner of Police to arrest and prosecute Ibrahim Musa, spokesman of the group. October 9, 2016 In "News" Nigerians in the United Kingdom, Thursday, have demanded the immediate prosecution of the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Sheik Ibraheem El-Zakzaky for alleged terror related activities, saying the prosecution became necessary, as he (El-Zakzaky) has been indicted by investigations into a faceoff between his group and the… October 6, 2016 In "News"