The Market Women Committee of the All Progressive Congress (APC) on Tuesday sensitized traders across major markets in Benin, on the SIMPLE Agenda manifesto of its Edo 2020 Governorship candidate, Pastor Osage Ize-Iyamu. Speaking at New Benin market, Hon Sweet Ikponmwosa, Organizing Secretary of the committee, said the rally was to tell the traders the plans Ize-Iyamu has for traders if elected Governor. She criticized the Obaseki-led administration for failing to provide security in market places following a series of fire outbreaks in major markets across the state, while assuring the market women that Ize-Iyamu will implement plans in his manifesto to secure the markets through the provision of a functional lighting system and an effective security network within the markets. “The SIMPLE Agenda manifesto is about the security of life and property, empowerment, employment, social welfare, good leadership amongst others,” she said. “We want you to support this change that will make life better for everyone. The present administration has refused to provide security for markets and this has led to the loss of millions of Naira through fire outbreaks.” “The governor promised to give succor to victims whose goods were destroyed by the fire, but has not fulfilled this promise as I speak today.” On her part, the Chairman of the Committee, Mrs. Shina Peters, educated the market women on safe ways to participate in the electoral process and the proper way to cast votes on Election Day. In response, the traders promised to vote for the APC en masse at the polls. They condemned the incumbent government for imposing harsh fines over minor offenses and incessant arbitrary arrests and detainment without trial. One of the traders, Mr. Emmanuel Chjnedu, said APC under the Adams Oshiomole administration in Edo constructed roads and schools all of which remain in good shape. On the contrary, he said the Obaseki-administration embarked on the imprisonment of market women and commercial bus drivers over minor offenses. Vanguard In this interview with Don Pedro Obaseki, he speaks on why he pulled out of Edo State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary, and his decision to support Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the PDP candidate in the September 10 election in the state and maternal cousin, against the wish of his… August 7, 2016 In "Politics" Former Governor of Edo State and immediate-past National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, arrived Benin City, Edo State Capital, to a heroic welcome on Thursday as thousands of party supporters and other residents lined streets and thronged other spaces to cheer his arrival. July 23, 2020 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Edo Governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has assured the people of Edo State that his clarity of purpose and hunger for service will transform the decaying neglected infrastructure across the 18 Local Government Areas of the State. July 9, 2020 In "News"