Former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunyose Oyinlola has thrown his weight behind calls for the South-East to produce the next president in 2023. In an interview with Vanguard, the former Lagos State military administrator said: “The constitution of the PDP allows for zoning. If a northern president has held the position for eight years, we said the presidency should move to the South. And in moving to the South, one should consider the zones. There are three zones in the South and three zones in the North. So, let it come to the South before we know which of the zones should go for it”. Governor Oyinlola continued: “If on the basis of equity, we have had a democratically elected president from the South-West, we now have a democratically elected vice president from the South-West and we have had a democratically elected president from the South-South. In the southern divide, I want to believe the South-East is the only one that has not had the opportunity to produce the president. If we belong to the same Nigeria, equity, fair play should be the watchwords.” Pressed further if he was advocating for the South-East to produce the next president, Gov Oyinlola said, “By my analysis, it goes without saying. Vanguard PRINCE Olagunyose Oyinlola, former governor of Osun State, in this interview, insists that without restucturing, the 2023 general elections will end in futility. August 10, 2020 In "News" YORUBA leader and elder statesman, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, and Dr Doyin Okupe, former senior special assistant on Public Affairs to former President Olusegun Obasanjo, have picked holes in Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s wooing of the South-West with the presidency in 2023, if President Muhammadu Buhari is re-elected, next year. December 29, 2018 In "News" Ohanaeze Ndigbo and Afenifere, the apex socio cultural bodies of the Igbo and the Yoruba were yesterday united in chiding politicians from their ethnic zones advocating a second term for President Muhammadu Buhari as the fastest route for the presidency to come to their zones. The two groups in separate… October 27, 2018 In "News"