THE Federal Government has revealed its intension to examine every possible option in the development and distribution of a vaccine against the COVID-19 disease, and the health and safety of Nigerian citizens is the priority of the Buhari administration in that matter. This was disclosed earlier today by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, during a virtual meeting with representatives of the BNT162 COVID-19 vaccine candidate on the progress of the vaccine development around the world, including Africa. The meeting was attended by the Health Minister, Dr Osagie Ehanire and the Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr Faisal Shuaib with representatives of Pfizer and Biotech, the international pharmaceutical firms promoting the BNT162 vaccine candidate. According to Professor Osinbajo, the interaction between the FG and the promoters of the vaccine candidate “is an important conversation and it is important for us that we are prioritized-as the largest country in Africa-in the distribution of the best COVID-19 vaccine when it’s eventually ready. “Our priority is the health of Nigerian citizens. We continue to engage and intend to look at every possible option -from all manufacturers- of a good vaccine. We want to do the very best for our people in this regard.” During the meeting, Osinbajo asked several questions about the COVID-19 vaccine candidate including how quickly can Nigeria get the vaccine once it’s safely ready. Responding, the Pfizer Country Manager and Representative in Africa, who spoke for the promoters, Mr Subair Olayinka disclosed that “Nigeria will be a priority,” for the vaccine supply to Africa. Although the vaccine trials are not going on in Nigeria currently he said the trails are ongoing in parts of the African continent and it would be entering the third phase, having concluded the first two phases successfully. Also speaking the Health Minister noted that the FG would consider quality, appropriate volume and how well and quick a vaccine can be delivered to Nigeria in deciding which manufacturer to make the supply. Vanguard By Chioma Obinna PFIZER Incorporation and BioNTech have dosed first participants in the United State, US, in the Phase  1/2 clinical trial for the BNT162 vaccine programme to prevent COVID-19. The trial is part of a global development programme and the dosing of the first cohort in Germany was… May 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Sola Ogundipe When President Muhammadu Buhari received Nigeria’s consignment of the purported Madagascar COVID-19 herbal cure known as COVID-Organics, he immediately ordered that the consignment be sent for scientific tests. The President of Guinea-Bissau, Umaru Sissoco Embalo, had presented the herbal drugs to the Nigerian President in Abuja during… May 23, 2020 In "Health" By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The Nigerian Federal Government has said its citizens may have to learn to live with the COVID-19 until there is a vaccine to halt its spread. The government also asked the organized labour to develop new strategies for workplace operations at the end of the… May 1, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"