Tragedy struck, Friday night, at Odo-Olowu Bus Stop, Ijesha, along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, when a container fell off a truck and crushed two young women to death. Both are yet to be identified. The incident, it was gathered, happened around 10.45p.m. Emergency responders have recovered the bodies and taken them to a morgue. The Director-General of Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, LASEMA, Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, confirmed the incident. It was gathered that the truck, loaded with an empty 40-foot container, suddenly suffered brake failure and rammed into a stationary truck, and the container fell off. However, the driver of the ill-fated truck was rescued by LASEMA personnel, who took the injured man to a hospital. “Sadly, two adult females lost their lives and their remains have been transported by State Environmental Health Monitoring Unit, SEHMU, to the mortuary,” Oke-Osanyintolu stated. Vanguard reports that in recent times, cases of containers falling of trucks a killing motorists and passengers along the Oshodi-Apapa stretch have become frequent. Two staff members of FAAN where victims earlier in the month, while on July 26, another container fell on a commercial bus, killing two. Both incidents were at Ilasa Bus Stop, a few kilometres from Odo-Olowu Bus Stop, where today’s incident occurred. VANGUARD By Olasunkanmi Akoni Tragedy occurred late Thursday evening during the ongoing restriction of movement order, when two fallen 20feet container laden trucks, a private tow truck and a towed Toyota Sienna involved in a multiple road crash along Apapa-Oshodi Express Road, en route Cele Bus Stop, inward Oshodi, Lagos, killing… April 3, 2020 In "Metro" By Olasunkanmi Akoni A tragedy occurred on Sunday, when a truck with number plates SGM 715 XA loaded with a 20-foot container fell on a commercial bus stationed at Ilasamaja beneath the bridge, along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, killing two persons with others injured in the process. According to an eyewitness, the… July 26, 2020 In "Metro" For the second time in less than a week, four persons, three men and a woman have been crushed to death by unlatched containers, which fell off from their trucks at different areas in Lagos State. The first incident occurred last Tuesday at Ijesha, along the Oshodi/Apapa Expressway, where a… February 24, 2011 In "Law & Human Rights"