Sacked workers of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo, Ondo State, weekend petitioned Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, intimating him that they had not been reabsorbed. Recall that in 2019, the 35 staff of the institution attached to the staff primary and secondary schools of the Polytechnic were disengaged. They  were owed several months salaries and were not paid any entitlement. In a petition to Governor Akeredolu  through their counsel, Banjo Ayenakin & Co,  the workers contended that contrary to news report circulating  in  the state, they had not been reabsorbed. The petition reads, “The attention of our clients have been drawn to series of press releases from the Palace of Olowo of Owo; Oba Ajibade Gbadegesin Ogunoye; the Governing Council of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic and the management of the Polytechnic to the effect that Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has re-engaged all the disengaged staff of the Polytechnic.  As a matter of fact, the news has been published in several bulletins and online news platforms as breaking and sensational news. “We have the instruction of our clients to write this open letter to Mr Governor; Oluwarotimi Akeredolu that our clients have not been informed by anyone howsoever that they have been reengaged; let alone being re-engaged. Our law firm; Banjo Ayenakin & Co has made frantic efforts to verify the authenticity of this news and found out that same is false and untrue. “The legal tussle over the legality or otherwise of the disengagement of our clients is still at the National Industrial Court, Akure.   Prior to the disengagement; our clients committed no offence; they were never queried and they were never made to face any disciplinary panel. “Consequent upon their disengagement; our clients wrote a letter to your excellency seeking justice and reinstatement to their employments. The letter was not replied; let alone our clients being reinstated. As a result of the injustice meted to our clients; we were instructed to file a civil suit against the management of the Polytechnic seeking reinstatement of our clients, among other reliefs. “We are writing this open letter to Mr Governor to clarify issues and to set the record straight.” Vanguard Dayo Johnson - Akure THE over 35 staff of the Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo, Ondo state sacked a year ago by the state government have cried out that they have not been reabsorbed. Those sacked in 2019 were workers of the institution’s primary and secondary schools. The state government… August 30, 2020 In "Education" Dayo Johnson - Akure The about 30 sacked staff of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic Staff Primary and Secondary Schools, Owo, Ondo State, have threatened legal action against the authorities of the institution for their unlawful disengagement. A letter of demand and Pre- Action Notice to the management of the institution, and… October 3, 2019 In "Education" The Ondo State government has directed the disengaged staff members of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic Staff School, Owo willing to be absorbed into public primary or secondary schools to signify interest as soon as possible. This was contained in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) by… October 24, 2019 In "Education"