Nigerian-born, Kaycee Madu, who was appointed as Canada’s new minister of justice in his appreciation message to Nigerians for their support and message said he looks forward to the “day when Nigeria and Africa become places where hard work and merit are rewarded”. Madu is the first black man to occupy either Provincial or Federal Justice positions of the Justice Minister, Attorney General or Solicitor General in the history of Canada. He was born and raised in southeastern Nigeria. He graduated from the University of Lagos with a law degree in 2001. He and his wife moved to Canada in 2005. They have three children. In an earlier report, Vanguard noted Canadian Premier, Jason Kenney, elevated Madu to the position of the minister of justice from Municipal Affairs in a cabinet shuffle that saw Calgary-Elbow MLA Doug Schweitzer deployed to economic portfolio, according to Canada’s CBC report. Kenney described Madu as “a man who has experienced racial prejudice firsthand and can bring that sensitivity to this important role,”  while saying; “I’m excited to have him in that position.” While appreciating well wishes from Nigerians and Africans after the news of him becoming the Edmonton-South West minister Minister of Justice and Solicitor General in a twitter post thanked Nigerians and Nigerians in Diaspora (NiDCOM) for their support and prayers. Thank you for all the support and prayers coming from Nigeria and Nigerians in the Diaspora. I look forward to the day when Nigeria and Africa become places where hard work and merit are rewarded. Chukwu Gozie!   #ableg #cdnpoli — Kaycee Madu (@KayceeMaduYEG) August 30, 2020  His appointment was celebrated Canada’s Alberta Black community as a way to bring needed perspective to the nations justice system. Kenney described Kaycee Madu as “a man who has experienced racial prejudice firsthand and can bring that sensitivity to this important role,”  while saying; “I’m excited to have him in that position.” Madu, who has practised law in both Nigeria and Alberta, was first elected as a Member of Legislative Assemblies (MLA) in the April 2019 general election. Dunia Nur, president of the Edmonton-based African Canadian Civic Engagement Council, said Madu has become a role model for the community. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Rasheed Sobowale Nigerian-born, Kaycee Madu, has been appointed as Canada's new minister of justice. Madu is also the first Black Man to occupy either Provincial or Federal Justice positions of the Justice Minister, Attorney General or Solicitor General in the country. According to report, Madu was born and raised… August 27, 2020 In "News" AT a time when self-acclaimed Nigerian political gurus who arrogantly adorn a conceited political sophistication epaulet are calling Ndigbo politically naïve, a fascinating story in the foreign media gladdened my heart this week. While it is true that in the cesspit of Nigerian politics and its asinine leadership recruitment process,… May 2, 2019 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari on behalf of the Federal Government felicitated with President of African Development Bank, AfDB, Dr Akinwunmi Adesina, on his re-election for a second term in office. A statement issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina,… August 27, 2020 In "News"