Popular Nigerian online comedy group, Ikorodu Bois has received a set of filmmaking equipment from Netflix. The Ikorodu Bois shared a video on its official Twitter handle on Wednesday displaying the set of equipment as received from the American technology and media services provider and film production company. Guyssss!! @NetflixFilm sent us this presents omg! thank you guys @NetflixFilm pic.twitter.com/8hD2u8uwI5 — ikorodu bois (@IkoroduB) August 12, 2020  Ikorodu Bois is a Nigerian online comedy group that recreates and mimics “multi-million dollar music videos and Hollywood movie trailers”. They drew the attention of some Hollywood stars and producers of the movie, Extraction, Russo Brothers, following the remake of the movie trailer. The Ikorodu Bois gained notoriety for remaking scenes from famous music videos and Hollywood films. Months ago, the boys caught the attention of American actor, Will Smith, after they recreated the Bad Boys Forever trailer. Actor, Dwayne Johnson, and basketball player, Lebron James, have also reached out to the boys in recent times. The group is made up of 15-year-old Muiz Sanni, 10-year-old Malik Sanni and 13-year-old Fawas Aina. Their 23-year-old brother, Babatunde Sanni, manages and edits the videos. Vanguard News Nigeria By David Royal Popular Nigerian online comedy group, Ikorodu Bois, have received an invitation to the premiere of Hollywood thriller, Extraction 2. Ikorodu Bois is a Nigerian online comedy group that recreates and mimics "multi-million dollar music videos and Hollywood movie trailers". Ikorodu Bois drew the attention of the producers of… June 25, 2020 In "Entertainment" A star-studded film, The Three Wise Men, is the latest in the series of films funded by the Bank of Industry (BOI) under its initial N1.0billion loan scheme tagged NollyFund. February 5, 2016 In "Showtime People" In continuation of BOI’s support for the Nigerian Creative Industry, BOI has developed a special Product Program called “BOI NollyFund” under which Nigeria’s leading movie producers will receive financial support to produce international quality films and screen them through various platforms of movie distribution available both in Nigeria and internationally. April 25, 2015 In "Home Video People"