The All Progressives Congress APC has accused the Peoples Democratic Party PDP of spinning tired conspiracies in the lead up to the September 19 Governorship election in Edo state, saying the PDP is not ready for the polls. APC in a statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr Yekini Nabena also dismissed allegations by the PDP that it had connived with the electoral umpire to postpone the election. The statement reads; “The Peoples Democratic Party PDP is not prepared for the forthcoming Edo and Ondo State Governorship elections and has resorted to spinning tired conspiracies about a purported inaudible tape and tales of a planned postponement of the elections. “The Independent National Election Commission INEC is an independent election management body with equally independent operations. Hence, the APC being a political party is not an electoral body and cannot speak on a purported planned postponement or otherwise. Evidently, it was the PDP’s practice to interfere in INEC’s operations. The APC has not copied such undemocratic and ignoble practice. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:  “For us in the APC, if the elections are held today, we are ready and confident on victory based on our visible pro-people and development track records and progressive plans for the good people of Edo and Ondo states. “Our worry is the PDP’s threat of violence in the lead-up to the Edo and Ondo governorship elections as echoed by the recent Amnesty International report and other well-meaning concerns. As always, the PDP has absolutely nothing to campaign on and has resorted to spreading fear. “We will continue to reiterate that no life is worth the inordinate ambition of any partisan. The forthcoming elections must be peaceful, free, fair and credible. Votes must count and the wish of the electorate must prevail on who governs them. “We call on our state institutions particularly INEC, the Judiciary and our security services not to be distracted by the PDP’s usual manipulative and disruptive antics and concentrate on protecting our hard-fought and cherished democracy”, APC added. Vanguard News By Omeiza Ajayi – Abuja The All Progressives Congress APC has accused the Peoples Democratic Party PDP of resorting to childish and comical conspiracies in the lead-up to the September 19 governorship election in Edo state, saying the PDP has come to the realization that it stands no chance at… August 7, 2020 In "Politics" The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus has been cautioned by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to mind his use of political languages and conduct just as it advised Secondus not to descend to the level unexpected of his office, less he enters the boxing… September 25, 2018 In "Politics" The All Progressives Congress, APC, has asked security agencies in the country to halt what it described as plans by the Peoples Democratic Party PDP to rig the September 19 governorship election in Edo State. August 2, 2020 In "Politics"