Lionel Messi is “very unlikely” to leave Barcelona before the 2020-21 season, according to Brazilian legend Ronaldo. Sweeping changes have begun at Barca following their humiliating Champions League exit at the hands of Bayern Munich, with head coach Quique Setien and sporting director Eric Abidal replaced by Ronald Koeman and Ramon Planes respectively. Presidential elections have also been brought forward to March. According to reports, the majority of the first team – including stalwarts such as Jordi Alba and Sergio Busquets – have been put up for sale in the wake of the 8-2 loss to Bayern, with the exception of Messi. However, the six-time Ballon d’Or winner has supposedly informed Koeman he sees his future away from Camp Nou. Messi is in the final year of his contract with Barca but the club’s former striker Ronaldo, who owns LaLiga side Real Valladolid, believes the financial impact of the coronavirus pandemic means a potential transfer is unrealistic. “It is very unlikely that Messi will leave Barcelona, especially with the financial crisis in Europe,” said Ronaldo. “Messi is the reference of the team and if I was Barcelona I would not let him leave in any case. “Messi has a very intense relationship with Barcelona, I do not think he will stop being in love with the team. He’s upset, of course, with how they were defeated in the Champions League. “Messi needs his team-mates to help him, as they do, and Barcelona will have to think of something different for the next seasons. Letting your main player leave is not the solution.” Fotmob Vanguard Lionel Messi has submitted a request to leave Barcelona August 25, 2020 In "Sports" Lionel Messi and Barcelona could be heading for a sensational split, and the man who hopes to become president at Camp Nou next year admits: "It gives me nightmares." There are continuing doubts over Messi's interest in staying on at Camp Nou after a painful end to the season in… August 21, 2020 In "News" Lionel Messi will be at the heart of Ronald Koeman's plans as Barcelona head coach so long as the "best player in the world" wishes to remain at Camp Nou. Koeman was unveiled as Quique Setien's successor on Wednesday, continuing a tempestuous few days at Barca following their humiliating 8-2… August 20, 2020 In "Sports"