Iran on Saturday hailed a UN Security Council vote rejecting a US bid to extend an arms embargo on the Islamic republic, saying its foe has “never been so isolated”. President Hassan Rouhani said the United States had failed to kill off what he called the “half alive” 2015 deal with major powers that gave Iran relief from sanctions in exchange for curbs on its nuclear programme. “The United States failed in this conspiracy with humiliation,” Rouhani told a televised news conference. “In my opinion, this day will go down in the history of our Iran and in the history of fighting global arrogance.” Only two of the Council’s 15 members voted in favour of the US resolution seeking to extend the embargo, highlighting the division between Washington and its European allies since President Donald Trump withdrew from the Iran nuclear accord in May 2018. Washington’s European allies all abstained, and Iran mocked the Trump administration for only winning the support of one other country, the Dominican Republic. “In the 75 years of United Nations history, America has never been so isolated,” said foreign ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi. “Despite all the trips, pressure and the hawking, the United States could only mobilise a small country (to vote) with them,” he tweeted. The result increases the likelihood that the US will try to unilaterally force a return of UN sanctions, which experts say threatens to plunge the Council into one of its worst-ever diplomatic crises. “The Security Council’s failure to act decisively in defence of international peace and security is inexcusable,” said US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. The embargo on conventional arms is due to expire on October 18 under the terms of a resolution that blessed the Iran nuclear deal, officially known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. Since Trump pulled out of the JCPOA and slapped unilateral sanctions on Iran under a campaign of “maximum pressure”, Tehran has since taken small but escalating steps away from compliance with the nuclear accord as it presses for sanctions relief. European allies of the United States — who, along with Russia and China, signed the deal with Iran — have voiced support for extending the 13-year-long conventional arms embargo, saying an expiry threatens stability in the Middle East. However, their priority is to preserve the JCPOA. The US text, seen by AFP, effectively called for an indefinite extension of the embargo on Iran, which diplomats said would threaten the nuclear agreement. Iran says it has the right to self-defence and that a continuation of the ban would mean an end to the nuclear deal. Pompeo announced that members had failed to back the proposal around 30 minutes before Indonesia, the current president of the Security Council, announced that the official results included two votes against and 11 abstentions. Russia and China opposed the resolution. “The result shows again that unilateralism enjoys no support, and bullying will fail,” China’s UN mission tweeted. Ambassador Gunter Sautter of Germany, which abstained, said “more consultations are needed” to find a solution that is acceptable to all council members. During a call between Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron, the leaders “discussed the urgent need for UN action to extend the arms embargo on Iran”. Hours earlier, Russian President Vladimir Putin called on China, France, Russia, Britain, the US, Germany and Iran to convene an emergency video summit to avoid an escalation of tensions in the Gulf. Washington has threatened to try to force a return of UN sanctions if it is not extended by using a controversial technique called “snapback”. Pompeo has offered the contested argument that the US remains a “participant” in the nuclear accord as it was listed in the 2015 resolution — and therefore can force a return to sanctions if it sees Iran as being in violation of its terms. European allies have been sceptical on whether Washington can force sanctions and warn that the attempt may delegitimise the Security Council. Nevertheless, the US is expected to deliver the snapback letter next week, AFP understands. Analysts suspect that Washington purposefully put forward a hardline draft that it knew Council members would not be able to accept. “The fact is that everybody at the UN believes this (resolution) is just a prelude to a US effort to trigger snapback and sink the Iranian nuclear deal,” Richard Gowan, a UN expert at the International Crisis Group, told AFP. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Iran's president said Wednesday the United States made a "stupid mistake" by abandoning a nuclear deal and warned of severe consequences if its allies agree to extend an arms embargo. The United States is waging a campaign to extend the ban on selling conventional weapons to Iran, which is set… May 6, 2020 In "Foreign" United States President, Donald Trump, on Friday said Iranian President Hassan Rowhani wanted to meet him at the UN in September, but Washington refused to partially lift sanctions on Tehran as such, the meeting did not hold. “They were trying to set up a meeting but he wanted sanctions lifted.… October 4, 2019 In "Foreign" US President Donald Trump warned the world against doing business with Iran on Tuesday as he hailed the "most biting sanctions ever imposed", triggering a mix of anger, fear and defiance in Tehran. August 7, 2018 In "News"