Israel announced Thursday it was halting the “import of fuel into the Gaza Strip”, the latest punitive measure over a wave of airborne firebombs from the Palestinian territory. The defence ministry announcement came hours after Israeli jets and tanks hit targets affiliated with Hamas, the enclave’s Islamist rulers. No casualties were reported. The latest round of hostilities has seen firebombs attached to bunches of balloons floating into Israel, setting scrubland ablaze. Sometimes kites are used in the makeshift attacks. In response, Israel has closed a goods crossing with Gaza and slashed the territory’s permitted coastal fishing zone. The fuel sanction was “in light of the continued launching of incendiary balloons from the Strip toward the territory of the State of Israel and of the undermining of security stability”, the defence ministry said. Israeli fire services in the south of the country reported 60 fires caused by balloons on Tuesday, and 24 on Wednesday, without recording any casualties. Hamas and Israel have fought three wars since 2008. Despite a truce last year backed by the UN, Egypt and Qatar, the two sides clash sporadically with rockets, mortar fire or incendiary balloons. The Gaza Strip has a population of two million, more than half of whom live in poverty, according to the World Bank. Palestinian analysts say fire from Gaza often aims to pressure Israel to give the green light for the transfer of Qatari financial aid into the strip. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The Gaza Strip's rulers Hamas fired rockets into the sea on Monday after repeated exchanges of fire with Israel in recent days, Palestinian security sources and eyewitnesses said. At least eight rockets were seen in the sky, heading toward the Mediterranean Sea, said AFP journalists in the coastal strip, which… August 10, 2020 In "Foreign" Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu plotted his next moves Thursday after his defence minister resigned over a controversial Gaza ceasefire, throwing his coalition into crisis and raising the possibility of early elections. November 15, 2018 In "News" Palestinian militants in Gaza said they fired a barrage of rockets at Israel on Sunday, in a new flareup a week ahead of a general election in the Jewish state. The radical group Islamic Jihad said the strikes were in response to Israel's killing of one of its fighters early… February 23, 2020 In "Foreign"