Nigerian-born, Kaycee Madu, has been appointed as Canada’s new minister of justice. Madu is also the first Black Man to occupy either Provincial or Federal Justice positions of the Justice Minister, Attorney General or Solicitor General in the country. According to report, Madu was born and raised in southeastern Nigeria. He graduated from the University of Lagos with a law degree in 2001. He and his wife moved to Canada in 2005. They have three children. Announcing his appointment, the MLA for Edmonton-South West and Minister of Justice and Solicitor General stated on his twitter page; “Thank you, everyone, for all the well wishes. I am beyond humbled to accept my new role as Minister of Justice and Solicitor General – where I will pursue fairness, equality, and justice for all with every ounce of strength I have.” Thank you, everyone, for all the well wishes. I am beyond humbled to accept my new role as Minister of Justice and Solicitor General – where I will pursue fairness, equality, and justice for all with every ounce of strength I have. More here: https://t.co/nmLf4bbsC3 #ableg pic.twitter.com/tHt8JrEthr — Kaycee Madu (@KayceeMaduYEG) August 25, 2020  Canadian Premier, Jason Kenney, elevated Madu to the position of the minister of justice from Municipal Affairs in a cabinet shuffle that saw Calgary-Elbow MLA Doug Schweitzer deployed to economic portfolio, according to Canada’s CBC report. His appointment was celebrated by some in Canada’s Alberta Black community as a way to bring needed perspective to the nations justice system. Kenney described Madu as “a man who has experienced racial prejudice firsthand and can bring that sensitivity to this important role,”  while saying; “I’m excited to have him in that position.” Madu, who has practised law in both Nigeria and Alberta, was first elected as a Member of Legislative Assemblies (MLA) in the April 2019 general election. Dunia Nur, president of the Edmonton-based African Canadian Civic Engagement Council, said Madu has become a role model for the community. The Nigerian in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) in its congratulatory message posted on Twitter noted; “Kaycee Madu is a Canadian politician who was elected in the 2019 Alberta general election to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta representing the electoral district of Edmonton-South West.” Congratulations to a Nigerian born Kaycee Madu @KayceeMaduYEG who becomes Canada's Minister Of Justice. Madu is the first Black Man to occupy either Provincial or Federal Justice positions of the Justice Minister, Attorney General or Solicitor General.#ProudlyNigerian #Thread pic.twitter.com/Lx1NMxo05k — Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (@nidcom_gov) August 26, 2020  Vanguard News Nigeria. AT a time when self-acclaimed Nigerian political gurus who arrogantly adorn a conceited political sophistication epaulet are calling Ndigbo politically naïve, a fascinating story in the foreign media gladdened my heart this week. While it is true that in the cesspit of Nigerian politics and its asinine leadership recruitment process,… May 2, 2019 In "News" Former Vice President of Nigeria, and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential aspirant Mr Atiku Abubakar has commended and congratulated Boris Johnson, Britain’s Prime Minister and Mrs Olukemi Olufunto Badenoch a UK-born Nigerian who was recently appointed as Children and Families Minister. Atiku said said:  'I commend and celebrate British… July 30, 2019 In "News" ABUJA—National Christian Elders Forum, NCEF, yesterday, called on the Federal Government to critically examine the current agitation for the republic of Biafra and give the agitators a fair hearing. The forum also observed with contempt the impression that only one section of the country with same religion faith was qualified… December 14, 2015 In "News"