Former Sokoto State Governor and Senator, representing Sokoto North Senatorial District, Senator Aliyu Wamakko, has commended youths in the country for their roles in the promotion of peace, unity, and socio-economic development of Nigeria. In a statement issued on Wednesday to commemorate the 2020 International Youth Day, Sen. Wammako, through His Special Assistant on Youth and Students Matters, Comrade Suleiman Mahmud T, said:” Nigerian Youth are significant pillars, upon which the future of the country relies, in our aspiration for meaningful socio-economic transformation. “The role our youth played, individually and collectively, in promoting peace and stability in our country cannot be overemphasized.” He also appealed for the cooperation of Nigerian youths, particularly in Sokoto State, towards the actualization of the various initiatives of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. He also stressed the need for “more engagement and participation of young people to accelerate economic growth and sustainable development, especially now that Mr. President has approved a huge sum of money purposely for Nigerian-Youth Investment Fund, N-YIF, through Ministry of Youths and Sports Development.” Wamakko said,” one of the greatest challenges facing governments and policymakers in Africa is the provision of employment opportunities to the young people.” Vanguard TWO days to the National Assembly elections, four political parties – the Action Congress of Nigeria, ACN; Congress for Progressive Change, CPC; Democratic Peoples Party, DPP and Peoples Democratic Party, PDP have emerged as leading contenders for the three senatorial seats in Sokoto State. A peep into the profile of… March 29, 2011 In "Politics" Sen. Aliyu Wamakko (APC Sokoto) who staged a grand homecoming to Sokoto today said defectors to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other political parties from All Progressives Congress (APC) will surely regret their actions. August 4, 2018 In "News" THE once seemingly monolithic Sokoto State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, is now on the brink of disintegration - no thanks to the hostilities that played out ahead of today’s party primaries. While the incumbent governor who allegedly is a member of the ‘New PDP’, is keen on… December 17, 2011 In "Politics"