The owner of a restaurant in the north of Malaysia has been jailed for five months after pleading guilty to breaching coronavirus quarantine rules. The unnamed man “was supposed to be under home quarantine but instead went out to open his restaurant, and as a result, a few villages in Kedah and Perlis had to be locked down,” Defence Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob said during a Thursday press conference. The Health Ministry has linked 40 coronavirus cases to the accused, who was fined 12,000 ringgit (2,860 US dollars). The ministry reported a total of 9,129 coronavirus cases and 125 related deaths. Of those who contracted the disease, 8,821 have recovered. After the number of cases surged in March, Malaysia imposed a strictly policed lockdown on the 18th of that month, with at least 23,000 arrests made before the lockdown ended on May 4. Police continued to swoop on migrant worker residences during the pandemic, with 21,234 people deported since the start of the year, according to Home Affairs Minister Hamzah Zainudin. More than 15,000 others accused of working illegally are being held in migrant detention centres ahead of deportation, Hamzah told media on Thursday. By May 31, 410 coronavirus cases had been diagnosed in the detention centres. An estimated 3 to 5 million migrants work in Malaysia, South-East Asia’s third-wealthiest country. DPA Vanguard News Nigeria The global death toll from the coronavirus pandemic has passed 25,000, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. March 28, 2020 In "News" United Kingdom, UK, introduced a two-week quarantine on Monday for most people arriving from abroad to try to limit the spread of the coronavirus, a measure roundly condemned by the ailing aviation sector. The measure, which applies to both residents and visitors with some exceptions, aims to prevent a second… June 8, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Greece has quarantined a second migrant facility on its mainland after a 53-year-old man tested positive for the new coronavirus, the migration ministry said on Sunday. The Afghan man lives with his family at the Malakasa camp along with hundreds of asylum seekers. He has been transferred to a hospital… April 5, 2020 In "Foreign"