New research from a European group of smell disorder experts at the University of East Anglia, shows that, while COVID-19 patients can breathe freely, and do not tend to have a runny or blocked nose, and  lose their sense of smell,  they seem to lose their sweet and bitter tastes more. The study of how smell and taste loss associated with COVID-19 infection differs from people with other causes of upper respiratory tract infections, lend weight to the theory that COVID-19 infects the brain and central nervous system. The research team hope that their work could help develop smell and taste tests for fast COVID-19 screening – in primary care and emergency departments. According to the Lead researcher of the team, Prof Carl Philpott, from the University;s Norwich Medical School: “The loss of smell and taste is a prominent symptom of COVID-19, however it is also a common symptom of having a bad cold. We wanted to find out exactly what differentiates COVID-19 smell loss with the kind of smell loss you might have with a cold and blocked-up nose.” The research team carried out smell and taste tests on 10 COVID-19 patients, 10 people with bad colds and a control group of 10 healthy people – all matched for age and sex. Philpott said:  “We wanted to see if their smell and taste test scores could help discriminate between Covid-19 patients and those with a heavy cold. We know that Covid-19 behaves differently to other respiratory viruses, for example by causing the body’s immune system to over-react, known as a cytokine storm, and by affecting the nervous system. “So we suspected that patterns of smell loss would differ between the two groups. We found that smell loss was much more profound in the Covid-19 patents. They were less able to identify smells, and they were not able to identify bitter or sweet tastes. In fact it was this loss of true taste which seemed to be present in the Covid-19 patients compared to those with a cold. “This is very exciting because it means that smell and taste tests could be used to discriminate between Covid-19 patients and people with a regular cold or flu. “Although such tests could not replace formal diagnostic tools such as throat swabs, they could provide an alternative when conventional tests are not available or when rapid screening is needed – particularly at the level of primary care, in emergency departments or at airports. “This research also shows that there are altogether different things going on when it comes to smell and taste loss for Covid-10 patients, compared to those with a bad cold. “It has previously been suggested that the coronavirus affects the central nervous system, based on the neurological signs developed by some patients. There are also similarities with SARS, which has also been reported to enter the brain, possibly via smell receptors in the nose. “Our results reflect, at least to some extent, a specific involvement at the level of central nervous system in some COVID-19 patients. “It is particularly interesting that COVID-19 seems to particularly affect sweet and bitter taste receptors, because these are known to play an important role in innate immunity. “More research is needed to see whether genetic variation in people’s bitter and sweet taste receptors might predispose them to COVID-19, or conversely, whether COVID-19  infection changes how these receptors function, either directly or through a cytokine storm – the over-reaction of the body’s immune system.” Vanguard From a mother unable to smell her baby's nappy to a lawmaker who suddenly could not taste food, some coronavirus patients have described a loss of olfactory senses -- and experts say this might be a new way to detect the virus. Ear, nose and throat (ENT) specialists in Britain,… March 24, 2020 In "News" Data from the Nigeria Centre for Disease and Control (NCDC) showed the number of deaths from COVID-19 rose to 813, with 38,344 infections. The NCDC made this known on its official twitter handle on Wednesday. The agency data showed that eight Nigerians died from COVID-19 complications, as at July 22.… July 23, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" ...tells government to adopt educational technologies By Ike Uchechukwu - Calabar The Nigerian Medical Association, Cross River stare Chapter has kicked against plans by government to commence a trial resumption of three public schools in the state Vanguard learned that each of the three public schools will open in three… June 13, 2020 In "News"