The Board of Polaris Bank Limited and the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), the Bank’s shareholder, have announced the appointment of Mr Innocent Ike as the Acting Managing Director/CEO of Polaris Bank Limited effective September 01, 2020. Earlier previous week, the Board had announced that the incumbent Managing Director/CEO of the bank, Mr Tokunbo Abiru, will be proceeding on his retirement, having successfully completed his two terms of two years each, first as Group Managing Director/CEO, Skye Bank Plc and later Managing Director/CEO Polaris Bank Limited. This takes effect from 31 August 2020. A statement from the bank signed by Babatunde Osibodu, the Company Secretary, said the incoming CEO was, until now, the Executive Director, Technology & Services while also overseeing the South-South/South East Directorate of the Bank. Accordingly, not only has he been a pivotal part of the Bank since July 2016, but a major driver of the Corporate Transformation journey. This gives an assurance of continuity: a definite continuation of the strategic plans and initiatives that brought the Bank the successes it has recorded to date. Ike has garnered over three decades of professional experience in the Banking Industry. He is a graduate of Accounting from the University of Lagos, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), a Certified IFRS Expert and an Honorary Senior Member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN). He holds an Executive Certificate in Strategy & Innovation from MIT Sloan School of Management; Boston and he is also a Member of Institute of Directors (IOD). With this change of baton, the Bank is set to continue to deliver on the sterling performance reflected in the full year 2019 results in which the Bank posted Profit After Tax (PAT) of N27billion. To buttress the fact that this is sustainable, the Bank’s first-half 2020 result showed a PAT of over N18billion, despite the tremendous headwinds brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. Vanguard The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Polaris Bank Limited, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, has announced his retirement from the service of the bank, effective August 31, 2020, having successfully completed his second two-year tenure at the helm of the bank. In a farewell message to the staff of the bank, Abiru… August 24, 2020 In "Business" Fastest growing financial institution in Nigeria, Keystone Bank Limited, has announced the resignation of Mr. Obeahon Ohiwerei from office as Managing Director/CEO of the Bank, and the appointment of Mr. Abubakar Danlami Sule as Acting Managing Director/CEO. Mr. Sule’s appointment is subject to approval by the Central Bank of Nigeria. March 30, 2019 In "Business" THE Group Managing Director/CEO of Polaris Bank Limited, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, has stressed the importance of staff training as the bedrock of a strong banking sector and for institutions building. October 8, 2018 In "Business"