A suspected serial killer, Sunday Shodipe, who escaped the Oyo State police custody has been re-arrested. Shodipe recounting how he escaped from police custody to Oriyomi Hamzat TV said, “The new DPO at Mokola Police Station told a policeman, Funso, that he should take us out to have our bath. The policeman took me out and he warned me against trying to escape. I didn’t even think of escaping when he said that. “But when I saw that he was engrossed in his discussion with a man, I climbed the tank stand and scaled the fence. It was around 7pm when I escaped.” Shodipe was earlier arrested by the Oyo State Police Command in connection with serial killings in Akinyele Local Government Area of the state. According to the police command through its Public Relations Officer, SP Fadeyi Olugbenga, the suspect was said to have escaped on 11th August. The Oyo State House of Assembly had called on the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to order a thorough investigation into the escape of Sunday Shodipe, the suspected serial killer in Akinyele Local Government Area of the state. VANGUARD A suspected serial killer, Sunday Shodipe, who escaped the Oyo State police custody has been re-arrested. Shodipe was earlier arrested by the Oyo State Police Command in connection with serial killings in Akinyele Local Government Area of the state. According to the police command through its Public Relations Officer, SP… August 23, 2020 In "Metro" By Adeola Badru THE residents of Akinyele Local Government Area of Oyo State, Sunday evening, went into wild jubilation, as the news of rearrest of the suspected Akinyele serial Killer, Sunday Shodipe, was announced by the state police command. Shodipe was suspected to have been the mastermind of terrorism and… August 23, 2020 In "News" By Ola Ajayi -Ibadan A suspected killer, Sunday Shodipo who was arrested by the Oyo State Police Command in connection with serial killings in Akinyele Local Government Area of the state has escaped from custody. According to the police command through the Public Relations Officer of the command, SP Fadeyi… August 17, 2020 In "News"