Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno has donated four cows to corps members serving in the state to celebrate the Eid-el-Kabir festival. Handing over the cows to representatives of the corps members on Saturday in Maiduguri, Zulum said that the gesture was to ensure that those who did not travel home for sallah also had something to celebrate with. Zulum, who was represented by the Desk Officer of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in the state, Mr Christopher Godwin-Akaba, lauded the contributions of corps members to the development of the state. While assuring the corps members of his administration’s support at all times, the governor said that it would remain commitment to their welfare, particularly prompt payment of their state allowances. He urged them to continue to pray for unity and lasting peace in the state and in Nigeria at large, stressing that his administration would continue provide an enabling environment for them to offer their best during the service year. Responding on behalf of corps members, the State Coordinator of NYSC, Nura Umar, commended the governor for his sustained support to scheme in the state. Umar assured Zulum of the scheme’s continued readiness to key in to his administration’s programmes and policies aimed at transforming the state. Also speaking, a Corps Liaison Officer (CLO), Muhammad Ali, said that the donation would go a long way in putting smiles on the faces of the corps members, as they would also be part of the celebration. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. By Ndahi Marama, Maiduguri The Borno State Police Command on Thursday confirmed the attack on Governor Babagana Zulum's convoy by suspected members of dreaded Boko Haram while on the way to Baga town of Kukawa Local Government Area on Wednesday. Deputy Director Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Yakubu Mohammed confirmed… July 30, 2020 In "Sports" Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has urged Muslims across the country on the need to celebrate moderately and "calm down" on the occasion of the Eid-el-Kabir festival in the wake of the rise in cases of the COVID-19 pandemic. July 30, 2020 In "News" As Nigeria joined the rest of the world to celebrate this year’s Eid-el-Kabir yesterday, Nigerian Muslims have been charged to use the occasion to pray for peace, unity, security and an end to coronavirus pandemic. August 1, 2020 In "News"