About 200 widows benefited and 500 families within Aswani, Okota, and Isolo areas of Lagos State benefitted from the maiden edition of COVID-19 Outreach palliatives distributed by Aswani Divisional Police Officer, CSP Oyin Frances to cushion the impact of the gradual ease of lockdown. The initiative code-named COVID-19 Outreach, according to the CSP, was to extend a hand of help to widows and underprivileged families whom she said were most affected by the present situation. The palliatives also included cooked foods, which were also distributed to family members who throng out of their apartments to have their share. The CPS explained that it was also borne out of the desire to sensitize members of the public on the need to adhere strictly to the precautionary measures outlined by the Nigeria Centre For Disease Control, NCDC to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in the communities. She emphasized the need for them to wash their hands regularly, observe social distancing, wear face masks, and also use hand sanitisers. Most beneficiaries expressed surprise that such a gesture was coming from the Police. For Mrs. Akeju Peju, a widow with five children, she said: “If someone had told me that a policeman or woman would do this, I would have had a rethink”, she said. Vanguard By Evelyn Usman For the first time in the history of the Lagos State Police Command, a Woman Police officer,  distributed palliatives to over  500 families within Aswani, Okota and Isolo areas of Lagos State, to cushion the impact of the gradual ease of lockdown. Also read: 10 feared dead,… August 7, 2020 In "News" A nonprofit organisation, Eziokwu Ebubechukwu Foundation, EEF, has called on the Federal Government to give assistance to widows and private school teachers in the country to cushion the economic hardship they face as a result of Covid-19 pandemic. August 6, 2020 In "News" WHEN considering those who make up the “poorest and most vulnerable” members of our society who should be eligible for palliative packages being distributed by governments and public-spirited individuals, women (especially widows) children, destitute and elderly primarily come to mind. After about six weeks of restrictions and lock-downs many more… May 14, 2020 In "Editorial"