DELTA State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Saturday returned Chief Kingsley Esiso for another four years term as its State Chairman. Esiso who emerged through consensus arrangement was returned with majority of his 39 members exco unopposed, following the consensus arrangement. Addressing party faithful and the newly elected party officials, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa urged them not to be distracted by the antics of opposition parties, noting that the consensus arrangement showed that the PDP was very united in the state. Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Chief Sheriff Oborevwori who spoke with newsmen just after the Congress, congratulated Chief Kingsley Esiso and his exco on their election. While urging the exco to remain resolute in its resolve to move the State PDP forward,  Oborevwori told party members across the state not to relent in their support for the party and the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s led government. Speaking after the State Congress which was done through an affirmative vote, n Esiso thanked Chief James Ibori and other party leaders particularly in Delta central, for the role they played towards ensuring his reelection as state chairman. The congress which was conducted by a committee from Abuja led by Lawrence Ezewan was witnessed by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. Vanguard News DELTA State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday held a consensus State Congress with Barrister Kingsley Esiso emerging as its State Chairman and Mr Val Areyinka as State Deputy Chairman. May 11, 2016 In "News" The Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State, Chief Kingsley Esiso, has urged chairmen of the party in the state’s 25 local government areas to attain a stronger and more united PDP in their areas. May 6, 2020 In "News" •Esiso did not signify interest to re-contest —Anirah, Unukegwho •PDP is not an indigenous club — Egbedi By Paul Olayemi DELTA State Chairman of the People Democratic Party, PDP, Mr. Kingsley Esiso and the member representing Sapele constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon Felix Anirah are at… May 13, 2020 In "Politics"