RealtyPoint, a reputable real estate firm has unveiled plans to host online financial freedom training for professionals in different sectors of the economy. The training tagged ‘Financial Freedom Simplified,’ will equip participants with the tools required to gather wealth through passive income streams, manage financial resources and achieve financial independence. Speaking about the training in a press statement, the firm’s CEO, Mr Debo Adejana said, “We realize that the times are tough for most people. Nevertheless, the Pandemic and its attendant implications do not have to mean a total lockup of financial destinies. The crash course was designed for professionals and salary earners across several sectors, including finance, oil and gas, education, civil service and so on. “Our organization is reaching out with empathy to salary earners because their job security has been threatened by the current corvid-19 menace. Many have lost their jobs and those that are still in employment need to acquire fresh skills for managing their finance to thrive amidst chaos and attain financial freedom.” He declared that the course is generally offered for free, as a palliative measure. However, there are paid slots available for VIP attendees, who are also been offered a bundle of benefits, including, several books and resources as well as discounts on investment packages.  The fast track course will be facilitated by Mr Debo Adejana and Mr Segun Adaju. Mr Adejana is an astute real estate entrepreneur who heads one of Nigeria’s leading Mass Housing Development Company; Realty Point Limited since 2005 after 8 (eight) years meritorious award-winning sojourn in commercial banking. Segun Adaju is the CEO of Consistent Energy Limited, President, Renewable Energy Association of Nigeria (REAN) and a multi-dimensional consultant to UN and other international organizations. He is an experienced banker who co-founded the first microfinance bank in Nigeria and found a goldmine in the green fields of renewable energy. He holds BSc (Economics) and MBA degrees as well as executive certifications from top-rated institutions including Harvard, MIT/Sloan and Lagos Business School. Vanguard FIRSTBank has unveiled a product designed to benefit women professionals, entrepreneurs, SMEs, women in paid employment as well as low income earners, traders and artisans. March 9, 2017 In "Business" A composite professional service and business consulting firm, TM Hays Consulting Ltd, will from September 23 to 24, 2016 hold a Microsoft Excel advanced level training, entitled "Basic to Advance of Microsoft Excel Course", and designed to enable participants transform data into meaningful dashboards, database reports, automatic calculation, charts and… September 8, 2016 In "Technology" As a way of deepening the digital drive, consumer finance firm, Zedvance, says it has launched a dedicated mobile lending app tagged MoneyPal. August 14, 2019 In "News"