Reddington Hospital Group has commissioned the Armoured Shield Medical Complex, a state-of-the-art medical PCR facility in Victoria Island, Lagos, to deal with all cases related to COVID-19, from testing to treatment and management of other co-morbidity conditions presented by a patient. Speaking during the launch of the centre, the Medical Director of Armoured Shield Medical Complex, Dr. Olusola Oluwole, said the facility is the only private hospital in Lagos accredited by the Lagos State Government both for testing and treatment of COVID-19. He said the new medical centre is complemented by Reddington Zaine Lab, a new molecular biology laboratory that has a Class 3 Biosecurity Technology that promotes efficiency and provides the highest level of protection for laboratory staff and the environment while detecting and diagnosing COVID-19 within 24 to 48 hours of testing. Dr. Oluwole said that the centre, which is established to complement the great efforts of the Lagos State government in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, is situated in four different locations across Lagos with an Incident Command Office in Victoria Island. The new medical centre built in phases, offers a 50-bed facility with isolation wards, high dependency and level 3 Intensive Care Unit, ICU, with ventilators, organ life support machines, CT Scan, X ray, laboratory, telemedicine, emergency response ambulances among other equipment and seasoned medical personnel required to treat all cases of Covid-19 in both adults and children. The Isolation Treatment Centre offers a well-furnished en-suite single bedrooms, mini office and lounges and is targeted at corporate community and discerning clientele, who desire a private and serene environment during the period of the management of the COVID-19 infection. The Medical Centre also provides facility for children, pregnancy care and theatre to operate COVID-19 patient with acute emergencies. Oluwole said Shell Nigeria and Seplat Petroleum Plc are just two out of the corporate organisations that have subscribed to the Armoured Shield Medical Scheme, which according to him is the most attractive comprehensive care package offered by any private hospital in Lagos for COVID-19 management. Special guest of honour and Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, commended the management of Reddington Hospital for establishing the COVID-19 management centre at a time when the current medical facilities and isolation centres in the state are overstretched. Prof. Abayomi said private sector initiatives like the Armoured Shield Medical Centre will go a long way in complementing efforts of Lagos and Federal governments in winning the war against the ravaging global pandemic. He said Lagos State as the epicentre of COVID-19 in Nigeria has demonstrated commendable leadership through the Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in curbing the spread of Coronavirus in Nigeria. He added that “Lagos State with the support of the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, Federal Ministry of Health and the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has provided a working template which other states are now running with, in the management of Covid-19 in Nigeria.” He said that with over 70,000 people tested, Lagos State is leading in the number of tested individuals not only in Nigeria, but in some African countries. Prof. Abayomi said the state has identified the apathy of most people to testing, stigmatisation of infected and treated persons, refusal to adhere to non-medical protocols such as social distancing, wearing of face mask in public places and the general cynicism among the populace that COVID-19 is a “big man disease” as some of the challenges facing the fight against the pandemic in Nigeria. VANGUARD Reddington Wellness Centre has launched a total body health screening service known as LIFESCAN Medical Checkup Service that provides early detection for critical conditions and life threatening illnesses, particularly for people with risk factors. June 20, 2017 In "Health" Lagos State government will continue to seek partnership with private sector healthcare providers to increase access and affordability of quality healthcare for residents. The Deputy Governor of the state, Dr. Idiat Adebule, who stated this while commissioning the Reddington Lekki Hospital, noted that providing quality healthcare for a growing population… February 10, 2019 In "Health" To stem the tide of capital flight resulting from seeking medical care abroad by the political elite, high net-worth individuals and corporate institutions, The  Reddington Hospital Group has launched a new healthcare facility that provides super specialist expert care across a range of clinical specialism. The  facility known as Maxy… October 22, 2016 In "News"