Fresh off a bout of COVID-19, Brazil’s President, Jair Bolsonaro, said Friday nearly everyone will probably end up catching the new coronavirus, urging Brazilians to “face up to it” and saying there was nothing to fear. The far-right leader’s latest bid to downplay the pandemic came as Brazil closed in on the grim milestone of 100,000 people killed by the virus, the second-highest death toll in the world, after the United States. Brazil’s Bolsonaro, who is just coming off three weeks in quarantine with a case of the coronavirus, pointed to his own case as an example. “I’m in the high-risk group,” the 65-year-old president told journalists during a visit to the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul. “I knew I was going to catch it someday, as I think unfortunately nearly everyone here is going to catch it eventually. What are you afraid of? Face up to it,” he said. “I regret the deaths. But people die every day, from lots of things. That’s life.” Bolsonaro has faced criticism for his handling of the pandemic as it has surged in Brazil, the country with the second-highest number of cases and deaths in the world: more than 2.6 million and 92,000, respectively. Bolsonaro, who has compared the virus to a “little flu,” has fought stay-at-home measures to contain it and regularly flouted social distancing guidelines, hitting the streets of Brasilia to exchange handshakes and hugs with supporters. He tested positive for the virus on July 7 after coming down with a fever, and spent three weeks in isolation at the presidential palace. On Thursday, in his first public event since his illness, he greeted a crowd of supporters in the northeastern state of Piaui, removing his face mask to loud cheers. The same day, the president’s office announced his wife had tested positive for the virus. Bolsonaro later revealed he was again feeling poorly and was taking antibiotics for an infection that he called “moldy lungs” caused by inactivity during his quarantine. Bolsonaro argues stay-at-home measures are needlessly hurting the economy. He is instead pushing the drug hydroxychloroquine as a treatment for the virus, and took it himself when he was infected, despite numerous studies finding it has no benefit against COVID-19. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has again tested positive for the new coronavirus, his office announced Wednesday, saying he would extend his two-week quarantine and suspend upcoming travel plans. The far-right leader, who has faced criticism for downplaying the pandemic and flouting social distancing measures, has been in self-isolation in the… July 23, 2020 In "News" Rarely have two words ignited such a firestorm of controversy. "So what?" said Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro on Tuesday when a journalist asked him about the fact that more than 5,000 Brazilians had died of the coronavirus. The far-right leader's off-the-cuff comment has been sparking anger ever since, with governors,… May 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro decreed Thursday that places of worship are "essential services" that must be exempted from coronavirus confinement orders, the far-right leader's latest jab at aggressive containment measures. The decree, published in the government diary, adds "religious activities of any kind" to the list of exempted services, alongside… March 27, 2020 In "Metro"