One of Brazil’s leading indigenous chiefs, Aritana Yawalapiti, died Wednesday of respiratory complications caused by COVID-19, his family said. Aritana, 71, a chief of the Yawalapiti people in the Amazon, was known for fighting to protect the world’s biggest rainforest and the rights of the indigenous peoples who live there. “He was a great advocate in the struggle to preserve and perpetuate his people’s culture for future generations and a tireless activist against the effects of deforestation,” his family said in a statement. Aritana was diagnosed with the new coronavirus about two weeks ago, after having trouble breathing in his village in the Xingu indigenous reserve. He died in an intensive care unit at a hospital in the city of Goiania. He had been raising funds to help indigenous communities deal with the pandemic when he got sick. COVID-19 has hit especially hard among the region’s indigenous groups, who have a history of vulnerability to outside diseases. In Brazil, more than 22,000 indigenous people have been infected and 633 have died, according to the Brazilian Indigenous Peoples’ Association. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The World Health Organisation (WHO) says it is deeply concerned about the impact of coronavirus on indigenous people in the Americas, the current epicenter of COVID-19 pandemic. The WHO Director-General, Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus, said this in his speech read at a news conference at WHO headquarters in Geneva, posted on… July 22, 2020 In "Health" ...With a record 54,000 new infections in a single day Brazil has become the second country in the world to hit one million coronavirus cases after infections soared by 54,000 in one day. The South American country recorded more than 1,200 deaths for the fourth consecutive day bringing the total… June 20, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Amazonian tribe members in Ecuador released six people they had kidnapped to demand the release of the body of a leader killed by the coronavirus, the government said on Saturday. Two police officers, two soldiers, and two civilians were taken captive by the indigenous people on Thursday in the village… July 5, 2020 In "Foreign"