Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo has revealed how the late former American Ambassador in Nigeria, Amb. Walter Carrington offered him political asylum in the United States during the dark days of the late junta, Gen. Sani Abacha in 1995. Obasanjo remarked that during his tenure as Ambassador, Carrington, helped in easing the move to democratic rule in the country, having met Nigeria under the military rule, which had run consecutively for over a decade and bred a culture of arbitrariness, flagrant abuse of human rights and disdain for the rule of law all of which relegated our dear country, Nigeria, to the unenviable league of pariah states in the comity of nations. These attributes were contained in a condolence letter to the wife of the late Ambassador, Mrs Arese Carrington, copy which was made available to newsmen, by Special Assistant (Media) to the former President, Kehinde Akinyemi, in Abeokuta on Tuesday. According to Obasanjo, Carrington was one of the responsible, mature and respected voices to take Nigeria out of the unwholesome situation it had found itself – permanently in crisis, regularly threatened with disintegration, prolongingly devoid of democracy, and economically plundered and mismanaged. The former President stated that he, however, turned down the asylum offer, despite its tempting and assuring nature. “Indeed, I recall, sometime in 1995, that on one of my trips to Copenhagen to attend World Social Summit as Human Development Ambassador of the United Nations Development Programme, I received the most touching of the warnings, pieces of advice and offers to me from Amb. Carrington. He called me in Copenhagen and told me categorically that I was going to be arrested on returning home and, therefore, advised me not to return home. “But he did not stop it there, he offered me political asylum by his government in the US. That was both touching and assuring, but I decided that tempting and assuring as the offer was, I would not take it. I came back and was arrested and imprisoned by Abacha. No doubt, his generous assistance to my family, while I was a political prisoner, makes me forever indebted to him. “When I was in prison, he was one of the few foreign Ambassadors who regularly visited my wife to encourage her and to find out how I was doing in prison. I can proudly say he was a true friend and brother. Vanguard Governor Babatunde Fashola of Lagos State and his Ondo State counterpart, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, led other prominent Nigerians yesterday to celebrate the former Ambassador of the United States to Nigeria, Mr.Walter Carrington, who clocked 80 years. July 24, 2010 In "News" ONE of the most dangerous periods in our history was from 1995 to 1998 when the usurper, General Sani Abacha, bared his fangs. He detained without trial, maimed and killed patriots without batting an eyelid. August 17, 2020 In "Owei Lakemfa" By Clifford Ndujihe The National Consultative Front, NCFront, is mourning former Ambassador of the United States of America to Nigeria, Walter 'Omowale' Carrington, who it described as “our unwavering associate and honorary patron.” Carrington died, on Wednesday, aged 90 years in the United States of America. In a statement by… August 13, 2020 In "News"