Sen. Abba Ali, a member of the APC National Caretaker Committee, says the party is working towards having a data bank for all its members. Ali, wno is the committee member representing North West, stated this when he received the Kangiwa Ward APC Chairman who paid him a congratulatory visit in Katsina on Tuesday. According to him, when the names of members are captured, it will make access to details of members easy through the punch of a button. He said that the data bank would carry along all members including the stakeholders and also make it easy for administrative purposes. The member reiterated the committee’s commitment in bringing together and uniting all members, adding that reconciliatory process was on and achieving the desired goals. He appreciated the tireless efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari for introducing series of measures to revamp the economy and reduce the suffering caused by covid 19 pandemic to Nigerians. “Among the programmes introduced by the APC led government include introduction of Digital economy, new N-power programme, Special Public Work consisting of 774,000 Jobs. “Others are COVID-19 loan through NIRSAL Microfinance Bank, which is a clear indication of the passion, dedication and selfless leadership style of Buhari led APC government,” he said. Ali assured that as economic development had been part of the top priority of the government, “we will continue to pray and support the rare economic initiatives designed to change the future of incoming generations. “I am appealing to all Nigerians to support economic transformation of President Muhammadu Buhari by judicious utilization of the financial packages received from Federal Government. “Recently, we witnessed reduction of attacks on innocent Nigerians from armed bandits, this is achieved through the tireless efforts and sacrifices of our security agencies who are out to protect lives and properties. “By the special Grace of God, soon the insecurity will be over and all IDPs across the country will return to their respective destinations to continue with their normal day to day activities,” he said. He said Nigerians should be expecting a new reformed APC, eagerly waiting to meet the yearning and aspirations of the electorate. “APC in the North West and the National Caretaker Committee are working so hard for the spirit of oneness and a greater Nigeria. “I urged all Nigerians to continue supporting this noble course of APC which is working for the overall interest of the citizens,” he said. Vanguard  The All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed its readiness to integrate and reconcile aggrieved members to participate in the party’s activities July 22, 2020 In "News" The ruling All Progressives Congress APC has urged its members to work hard to sustain its winning streak, declaring that in the 2023 general elections, contestants would no longer be able to ride on the popularity of President Muhammadu Buhari as he would no longer be on the ballot. July 22, 2020 In "Politics" Reasons President Muhammadu Buhari moved against the suspended National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, emerged last night, as the  National Executive Committee, NEC, wielded the big stick to check the crisis ravaging the party and avert what the President described as self-destruction. June 26, 2020 In "Politics"