Nigeria’s Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama, has recovered from COVID-19 weeks after testing positive to the virus. Onyeama who disclosed this on Wednesday via his verified Twitter handle said his latest COVID-19 test result came back negative. He said “By the very special grace of God my latest #COVID19 test result came back NEGATIVE after three weeks isolation. I am eternally grateful to my family, the C-in-C and VP, the medical team, relations, friends, colleagues, religious leaders and.. “numerous well-wishers, who through their care, prayers, fasting, messages of support and encouragement never let me walk alone. #StayHomeSaveLives @NigeriaGov” By the very special grace of God my latest #COVID19 test result came back NEGATIVE after three weeks isolation.
I am eternally grateful to my family, the C-in-C and VP, the medical team, relations, friends, colleagues, religious leaders and.. — Geoffrey Onyeama (@GeoffreyOnyeama) August 12, 2020  It would be recalled that on 19th July, Onyeama announced that he tested positive to the virus via his official twitter handle. According to the tweet, Onyeama took his fourth COVID-19 test after feeling some signs of throat irritation. He stated that the result returned positive, and he proceeded to isolation in a health facility, where he will receive treatment. Vanguard News Nigeria  Foreign Minister Geoffrey Onyeama has reportedly contracted COVID-19 virus. Onyeama revealed via his Twitter handle that he felt slight throat itch and recent test confirmed he had contracted the virus. READ ALSO: COVID-19: 85 babies test positive for virus in one Texas county “(I) did my fourth Covid-19 test yesterday… July 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" President Muhammadu Buhari, on Sunday prayed for quick recovery of Geoffrey Onyeama, Minister of Foreign Affairs, after he tested positive for COVID-19 pandemic, and went into self isolation. July 19, 2020 In "News" Nigeria’s Foreign Affairs Minister Geoffrey Onyeama has tested positive for COVID-19, the respiratory disease caused by Coronavirus. He is a member of a presidential task force on COVID-19 that is coordinating the country's response to the pandemic. Mr. Onyeama announced in a tweet on Sunday that he would be isolated… July 20, 2020 In "News"