The President-General of Ndigbo United Forum, NUF, Chief Godson Ezenagu, has said that only a Nigerian President from the South-East can properly fix the country. Besides, Ezenagu argued, equity, fairness, conscience and principles of natural justice demand that Ndigbo be given the opportunity to produce the President in 2023. He said the more the people of the South-East are being marginalised the more the country continues to pass through difficult times. According to him, further denying the Igbo a chance of producing the President would further divide the nation, warning that it could lead to anarchy and disintegration. His words: “We are not talking about strength, numerical strength, because the North is bigger in number. “What we are talking about is alignment and realignment; and we are talking about equity, conscience, principles of natural justice. “All things being equal, when three persons are eating and you have six meat in the soup, it is expected that once you take one, the others will take one each. And it has to go two rounds. “But when a region takes one, two, three, it means they are cheating the other regions, and you know Nigeria nation came by amalgamation. “If the voice is not the same, there will be no amalgamation and the question is how long can you perfectly go on marginalising other regions? “If Nigerians will understand it, they should know that denying the Igbo race chance to become the President is further dividing the nation and could lead to anarchy because it is injustice. “Let me tell you, as far as Nigeria is kicking against a President of Igbo extraction, the more the country will suffer. “How long shall Ndigbo continue to miss in the affairs of the government? The economy of the country is down, Naira is falling every day. The Nigerian nation is in jeopardy and it is only an Igbo man that can fix Nigeria back. “Let me tell you; it is marginalisation that is fuelling the agitation for Biafra. “After the Nigerian—Biafran war, Nigerian said no victor no vanquish, but up till today some people are being marginalised,” he added in support of a President from the South-East. VANGUARD By Chinedu Adonu Acting President General, Ndi-Igbo United Forum, NUF, worldwide, Chief Dr Goddy Ezenagu has called on Ndigbo to come together to facilitate the possibility of becoming the Nigeria President in 2023. Chief Ezenagu, who made this call during a new year message in Enugu on Wednesday, regretted that… January 8, 2020 In "News" Acting President General of Ndi-Igbo United Forum Worldwide, NUF, Hon Godson Ezenagu,  has vowed to re-launch Igbo back to the decision-making level in Nigeria. September 29, 2019 In "News" THE All Progressives Congress, APC, chieftains in the South-East, have told a former President of Nigeria, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo  to "give Ndigbo a break,  because 2023 is the turn of Igbo extraction to produce the President of Nigeria.” January 4, 2019 In "News"