Young and talented comedian,  Okiki DFT, whose real names are Daudu Tolulope, has credited ace music producer and musician, Don Jazzy, as the  one who  brought his comedy skits to the limelight. The up and coming comedian is the new kid on the block, who is pulling all stunts to make it big in the Nigerian entertainment scene. Since hitting the Nigerian comedy stage through the social media space,  Okiki, who grew up and schooled in Akute, and is presently having his tertiary education at the University of Lagos, said he does not feel he has reached his peak yet. Reacting to a question on who and what event brought him to the limelight, Okiki DFT, who has 11 names,  said: “I don’t think I am in the limelight like you would want it to be. “But the skit that brought me to limelight, as you said earlier, was the one that Don Jazzy reposted; the one that I wanted to swim and I was told to swim would cost me N10,000. “And I had already dived to enter the water, but I just reversed.  It was actually reposted by Don Jazzy and from then followers started coming and my career took a turn for the better. “It was really amazing how things could change from one point to the next just by something or someone identifying with what you are doing.” VANGUARD Nigerian Music star, Micheal Ajereh a.k.a Don Jazzy, has urged Nigerians to adhere strictly to safety measures approved by health authorities to avoid contracting the virus as they visit barbing shop for haircut. July 6, 2020 In "News" Bethel Njoku popularly known as Senator is a comedian and actor who has built for himself a unique style. He is also a father of one. At the University of Jos where he studied theatre arts, he won many showbiz awards at different levels which paved the way for him… November 30, 2014 In "Entertainment" Stand-up comedian Olateju Oyelakin, popularly known as Teju Baby Face on said Monday that he decided to set up a mentorship academy to fulfill his burning passion of impacting knowledge. December 11, 2017 In "Entertainment"