THE Edo State Campaign Council of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that it will not be dragged into the narrative on social and conventional media dwelling on the appointment of a Resident Electoral Commissioner in Edo State by the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC) A statement in Benin Saturday by Chief Dan Osi Orbih Chairman Edo 2020 Campaign Council, said that the Campaign Council of Edo PDP recognises that INEC as an independent body reserves the right to appoint officials who have been cleared by the National Assembly to conduct elections in various states. He said, “As the commission responsible for election management, INEC will take responsibility for successes of elections and of course its failures. “We are only interested in INEC conducting free, fair, credible and transparent elections. Expectedly, we are watching with keen interest steps that are taken by INEC in preparation for the election. “The elections are just a few weeks away and our candidate has been received with enthusiasm in all 126 wards so far visited. In all stops, he has preached non-violence, compliance of Covid-19 regulations and of course his achievements and further development strides planned. “Edo people must not be scared or intimidated by the narrative of violence our opponents are spreading. “We hereby encourage all Edo people to come out en mass to vote for Governor Obaseki and PDP on Election Day, 19th of September,2020”. Vanguard News Nigeria By Gabriel Enogholase & Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The All Progressives Congress, APC, has accused the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, of spinning tired conspiracies ahead of the September 19 governorship election in Edo State, saying the PDP is not ready for the polls. But the PDP in Edo State has… August 21, 2020 In "Edo Decides" ....Says odds favour Obaseki By Egufe Yafugborhi, Port-Harcourt Governor Nyesom Wike has said the success of upcoming Edo state governorship elections would depend much on the level of integrity and impartiality committed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Security Agencies. Wike, Rivers State Governor and Chairman, Peoples Democratic… August 4, 2020 In "Sports" A chieftain of the PDP in Edo, Chief Dan Orbih, has faulted INEC for declaring that results will not be declared if the Edo or Ondo State governorship election is disrupted. June 12, 2020 In "News"