Phyno and Flavour have once again collaborated on a new song. After months of teasing, both stars have now released their brand new track titled “Chop Life”. The two music stars are frequent collaborators with songs like “Vibe”, “Authe” and “Culture”, which also starred the Obiligbo Brothers. Over the years, Phyno and Flavour have risen to prominence thanks to their impressive blend of highlife and contemporary music, and this new song is a perfect exhibition of the talents possessed by both music stars. The track, which is the new theme song for Life lager, has been released to commemorate the beautiful lighting of the Niger Bridge. The song emphasizes the message of hope and progress that has long been associated with the Life brand, while delivering a melodious tune that is sure to get you off your feet. Renowned for rapping in Igbo language, Phyno, is a native of Anambra State though raised in Enugu state. He initially rose to prominence with a couple sleeper hits before releasing the smash hit track “Ghost mode” featuring Olamide. For this theme song, he teams up with Flavour, another indigene of Anambra state who incidentally also grew up in Enugu where he honed his music skills. Flavour’s highlife hits include “Nwa Baby,’’ “Adamma’’, “Ada Ada’’ amongst others. VANGUARD Bracket featuring Phyno-Bar tender - After a long hiatus,the Yori yori singers are back with a new song off their forthcoming album titled Bar tender.They synergized with the rave of the moment,Phyno in this song. July 24, 2015 In "Entertainment" Davido and Wizkid have been going at each other for months now over the social media. Now it seems the duo have a real change to slug it out physically and musically as they have both been nominated for the Artiste of the Year prize at this year's Headies award… October 1, 2014 In "Music" The media have been set abuzz with an alleged song theft scandal involving an American artiste, Pia Mia and Nigerian rap star, Phyno. Music lovers were thrown in shocks following the alleged theft of Phyno’s song by the American singer. May 29, 2017 In "Entertainment"