Mali’s junta headed by Army colonel Assimi Goita which seized power in a coup on Tuesday has begun to meet with senior opposition politicians in the country. This comes amid global condemnation of the coup and mounting calls for the release of President Ibrahim Booubakar Keita and his prime minister Boubou Cisse. There were few signs that political opposition leaders were aware of the coup plot in advance but now they stand to benefit from a transitional government promised to be put in place by the military junta “I think the hardest part starts now. It’s a question of bringing everyone together, as I’ve always said, there are no winners and losers, we’re all Malians, so for us, even those who were with IBK (ed: Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta), if they don’t have blood on their hands, if they’re not involved in embezzlement of public funds, Issa Kaou Djim, member of the M5-RFP Strategy Committee explained in an interview. Observers fear the political upheaval will allow Islamic extremists in Mali to expand their reach once again. The intervention came amid months long political tension between the opposition and government. The coup is Mali’s second in eight years. Fotmob Vanguard Army colonel Assimi Goita on Wednesday introduced himself as Mali's new military strongman a day after a coup that was condemned by the international community but won support from the country's opposition. The African Union, European Union, the United States and the UN Security Council have all demanded the junta… August 20, 2020 In "Foreign" Rebel troops who have taken power in Mali said on Thursday "a transitional president" would be appointed from either civilian or military ranks. "We are going to set in place a transitional council, with a transitional president who is going to be either military or civilian," Junta spokesman Ismael Wague… August 21, 2020 In "Foreign" Leaders of a military coup in Mali that detained President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita and forced his resignation said Wednesday they would enact a political transition and stage elections within a "reasonable time". The National Committee for the Salvation of the People (CNSP) "decided to take responsibility in front of the… August 19, 2020 In "Foreign"