The Department of State Services, DSS, on Saturday, invited former Speaker, House of Representatives, Ghali Umar Na’abba, for a Monday appointment. The DSS invitation was the subject of a statement by National Consultative Front, NCFront, Na’abba’s new political group; signed by its Head, Public Affairs Bureau, Dr. Tanko Yunusa. The statement said the DSS invitation is because of the interview Na’abba granted Channels Television on Thursday. Na’abba was said to have, during the interview, revealed the agenda of his group and called on Nigerians of good conscience to join NCFront. The statement added that the NCFront National Co-Chairman had decided to honour the DSS invitation and would be at the DSS Headquarters in Abuja on Monday, at noon. It read: “Distinguished compatriots! Please be notified that the DSS, on Friday, sent an invitation to NCFront Co-Chair and former Speaker of (the House of Representatives) Nigeria, Rt Hon. Ghali Umar Na’aba, after his very profound interview on Channels Television on Thursday, in regard to the agenda of the NCFront to bring about a new Nigeria. “However, our leader, Ghali Umar Na’aba has decided to honour the DSS invitation and, therefore, shall be visiting the DSS Headquarters in Abuja on Monday at 12noon. “All NCFront organs, structures and allies nationwide are, by this notice, put on the alert as eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.” VANGUARD The conveners of National Consultative Front, NCFront, held a virtual global press conference on Monday, where they expressed dismay that Nigeria’s over-bloated political structure and warped governance system cannot boast of any sector that was working. Below is the full text of the concluding statement by former House of Representatives… August 12, 2020 In "News" By Clifford Ndujihe Leaders of the National Consultative Front, NCF, are mobilising for a nationwide mass action over political corruption, insecurity and poverty in the country on account of what they consider as President Muhammadu Buhari's helplessness over the issues. Led by Professor Pat Utomi, Alhaji Ghali Umar Na'Abba, and… August 3, 2020 In "News" ...Mobilises for national mass action By Clifford Ndujihe LEADERS of the National Consultative Front, NCF, are mobilising for a nationwide mass action over political corruption, insecurity and poverty in the country on account of what they consider as President Muhammadu Buhari's helplessness over the issues. Led by Professor Pat Utomi,… August 2, 2020 In "News"