Former British and Commonwealth Light-Heavyweight champion Peter Oboh has added his voice to the growing agitation by Nigerian sportsmen and women for the gradual resumption of sporting activities in the country but insists that there must be strict adherence to a regime of COVID-19 protocols as put together by the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). “It is by engaging in sports that sportsmen and women survive. Apart from earning their livelihood, sports id their life. Once a sportsman stops training and competing, the essence of his or her existence has been taken away. That is why I feel the government should relax the conditions for sporting activities to resume. But the protocols for COVID-19 will be observed. Oboh who is now an apostle for Christ pleads with the leadership of religious groups in the country to add grace to the good work they do on their members. He advised religious leaders in the country to copy the example of Jesus when he fed the multitude, by distributing food and other relief material to their members. Oboh who had severally distributed food items running into millions of naira during the recent lockdown occasioned by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic said, “both the Bible and the Quoran agree that let our good word be practical and be seen by all.” He continued, “they (religious leaders) should be giving out more than the money they are receiving from their congregation.” Vanguard By Jacob Ajom In the face of the biting effects of the ongoing lockdown in Lagos occasioned by the rampaging coronavirus pandemic, former Commonwealth and British Light-Heavyweight boxing champion, Peter Oboh, has given out food items worth hundreds of thousands of Naira to the needy. The beneficiaries were mainly women,… April 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Former British and Commonwealth Lightheavyweight boxing champion, Peter Oboh, has continued to surprise residents of Olodi-Apapa, in Apapa Local Government Area of Lagos, as he gives out relief materials. He said it was his modest way of cushioning the effects of the long lockdown occasioned by the ravaging COVID-19. It… May 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Former WBA International, British and Commonwealth Light Heavy Weight boxing champion, Peter Oboh, has urged Nigerians to continue to strictly observe the measures put in place by the Federal Government to control further spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Oboh gave the advice in reaction to the recent demolition of Prodent… May 31, 2020 In "News"