Ogun State government has disclosed that it has paid a total of N5.017bn to about 12,191 pensioners captured in its database under the non-contributory pension scheme between January and June this year. The Permanent Secretary, Bureau of Local Government Pensions, Mrs Irene Folasade Kokumo said this before members of the State House of Assembly Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs led by Hon. Akeem Balogun at the ongoing 2020 budget appraisal held at the Assembly Complex, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. Kokumo said the bureau which was poised to making life more abundant for retirees through effective coordination and prompt payment of monthly pensions, had compiled all outstanding gratuities and death pensions till date. Explaining that the contributory pension scheme which commenced in 2008 in line with the State Pension Reform Law, 2006, was amended in 2013, Kokumo noted that a total number of 6,872 workers were projected to retire on Transition Pensions Scheme, while 16,527 were scheduled to retire on contributory pension scheme which would be fully operational in the State by July 2025. On the 2020 budget of the Bureau, she said N4.9m was expended on capital projects which included the launching of a portal for pensioners, especially those abroad to upload their documents for assessment amongst other infrastructural projects. On his part, the State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Afolabi Afuape equally defended the 2020 budget performance of the Ministry with an assurance that the Ministry would continue to elicit effective management of the chieftaincy institution, hence the need to strategise towards establishing Chieftaincy Tribunal to address litigations on Chieftaincy matters in the State. Afuape explained that the proposed quasi-judicial body was aimed at mediating in chieftaincy disputes, towards resolving all pending litigations on chieftaincy matters to further uphold the revered status of the traditional institution in the State. He assured that the ministry would continue to provide effective monitoring of the 20 Local Government Councils for the promotion of transparency and accountability, ensure wealth creation, employment creation, poverty reduction and value orientation programmes in all the Local Government Areas. Vanguard Mr Femi Ogundimu, Director of Contributory Pension Scheme, Bureau of State Pension in Ogun, says the government has paid N6.3 billion to pensioners in the state between January and September. October 23, 2018 In "News" Recently, members of Ogun State Nigeria Union of Pensioners in their hundreds converged on Nigeria Labour Congress Secretariat along Moshood Abiola Way ,Abeokuta, for stakeholders meeting . At the meeting, the Senior citizens registered their displeasure over the state government’s alleged nonchalant attitude to their welfare. December 11, 2015 In "News" Ogun State governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, has lamented the heavy debt burden inherited by his administration, including backlog of workers’ salaries, pensions and gratuities. July 7, 2012 In "News"