Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has spent N5 billion naira in establishing a skill acquisition centre for youths in the state and over 400,000 youths have been trained in various skills in the last five years. Ganduje stated this on Saturday while delivering an address during this year’s International Youths Day celebration organized by the Ministry of Youths and Sports Development in Kano. The theme of this year’s event is “Youth Engagement for Global Action”. He stated that youths have been trained in skills including automobile technicians, carpentry, welding, tailoring and other vocational skills. “We have spent N5b in constructing the Dangote Ultra Modern Skills Acquisition Centre and have also trained 400,000 youths in various skills including automobile technicians, carpentry, tailoring, welding and others.” Also delivering his address, the Commissioner for Youths, Kabiru Lakwaya explained the essence and importance of the day while also calling on the state government to adopt some resolutions reached during 4th session of the Nigeria Youth Parliament  that took place in December 2019 “The international youth day is set aside by the United Nations organization for collaborations with and among member nations, international and local development partners aimed at enhancing the socioeconomic well being of youth that constitute over 60% of the world population. “A lot of resolutions were passed during the Kano sitting such as: “The need for investment in youth capital development to harness youth empowerment. “The need for the North East Development Commission to engage the young generation in resolving the menace in that geopolitical zone of the country. “The need for the removal of age limit as one of the requirements for job recruitment in Nigeria. “The need to declare a state of emergency in education in Nigeria. “This is precipitated by the Kano state initiative of providing free and compulsory education at primary and secondary school levels,” he stated. Vanguard News Nigeria. ‎The Kano State Government has sponsored the training of 60 youths on ‎heavy-duty vehicles maintenance‎ and repairs. September 11, 2019 In "News" By Abdulmumin Murtala - Kano The Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje has so far spent a total of N500m in training 200 youths as automobile mechanics in the state, being the third batch of the 1000 youths enlisted. The youths, both males and females, were sponsored by Kano State to… January 31, 2020 In "News" “Nigeria is my problem,’’ President Muhammadu Buhari, currently on his first working visit to Kano, northern commercial city, has declared. December 7, 2017 In "News"