The management of Grace Schools, Gbagada, Lagos, has stated that the decision not to open the boarding house was for the safety of the students, as against the news making round that parents were directed to take their children to the hotel to lodge during the forthcoming West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination, WASSCE. Members of Parents Teachers Association, PTA, of Grace High School, who held a protest at the school’s gate on Monday, told Vanguard that students, who are preparing for the forthcoming WASSCE, were advised to lodge in hotels to meet up with the timing of the exam. However, in a statement on Tuesday, the school said their priority was the students’ safety and also denied extorting money from parents to the tune of N1.5 million for hostel accommodation for the students, as reported by some media (not Vanguard). In the statement, the school’s public relations consultant, Mr. Ayodeji Ayopo, said legal actions would be taken against those alleged to have spread the rumour. The statement read: “We unequivocally put it on record that Grace Schools has not collected such unreasonable amounts from any of our parents in the course of resuming academic activities after the COVID-19 lockdown. “The children only resumed school first time on Monday, August 9, since the forced closure of schools in March. “All the students resumed as day students and none have paid any boarding fees. “We request the rumormongers to present evidence of payment and who they paid the alleged N1.5 million to, or which hotel the children were camped in. “We believe this baseless story is sponsored by aggrieved people who could not accept our decision not to open the boarding house without ironclad safety measures being put in place. “It is wicked, immature and uncalled for. “We have sought a legal modality to investigate those sponsoring the malicious rumour and the blogs used to magnify the slanderous, malicious and defaming lies. “Grace Schools has thrived on a long-standing record of integrity, credibility and honesty. “As an institution whose teaching is hinged on honesty, and good moral conduct, we eschew any vice that may soil the hard-earned and long-won credibility that the school is known for. “It is saddening that a media platform can jump at junk stories and in unconcerned desperation publish such without following the basic code of journalism—investigate. “We also appeal to the general public to disregard the story as a deliberate attempt to create an unnecessary crisis for this noble institution.” VANGUARD By Elizabeth Osayande Members of Parents Teachers Association, PTA, Grace High School, Gbagada, Lagos, have protested the school's directives that students, who are preparing for the forthcoming West African Senior School Certificate Examination, WASSCE, lodge in hotels to meet up with the timing of the exam. The protest took place… August 11, 2020 In "Education" The management of Lagos' foremost academic institution, Grace Schools has decried the attempt by some disgruntled elements and a section of the media to drag the school into slanderous, baseless and unfounded rumors stemming from the extortion of the parents. August 11, 2020 In "News" ...Officials to monitor protocol guidelines By Olasunkanmi Akoni The Lagos State Government has directed all the Senior School 3, SS3 and Technical Study Three, TEC3, students in both day and boarding schools in the state to resume on Monday, August 3, 2020. This was in line with the Federal Government’s… July 30, 2020 In "Education"