Leicester City duo Wilfred Ndidi and Kelechi Iheanacho have seen their market values rise amid speculation linking the Nigerian internationals with clubs in the Premier League, La Liga, and French Ligue 1. Based on the latest market value updates published by Transfermarkt, Ndidi remains Nigeria’s most valuable player at 45 million euros, which equals the highest value attained in his career in December 2019. European heavyweights Manchester United, Real Madrid, and Paris Saint-Germain have been credited with an interest in the holding midfielder this summer. Ndidi’s market value was lowered around four months ago because of the coronavirus pandemic and the suspension of football activities in England. His teammate Iheanacho has seen his stock rise too, with the striker now valued at 15 million euros, making him the fifth most valuable Nigerian player in the world. The 2013 U17 World Cup Golden Ball winner first reached that valuation of €15m – the highest in his career in June 2017 – shortly before his move to the King Power Stadium. Newcastle United, Aston Villa, and West Brom are among the clubs mulling over a move for Iheanacho this summer after an outstanding season with The Foxes. Vanguard Several players, including the likes of Kylian Mbappe, Neymar, Raheem Sterling and Harry Kane, have seen their market values drop because of what football is going through at the moment owing to the coronavirus pandemic. Nigerian players were not left out of the negative market value changes published by Transfermarkt… April 9, 2020 In "Sports" Barcelona have identified Wilfred Ndidi as a viable replacement for want away Arturo Vidal. Coach Quique Setien has made it a priority to reinforce the midfield with the signing of a central defensive midfielder who does not have the cliche Barca style of play attributes. ALSO READ: Coronavirus void season would… March 22, 2020 In "Sports" TOP Belgian club KRC Genk have turned down a six million Euros(about N1.9b) bid for Nigeria star Wilfred Ndidi, less than two years after they paid $200,000 (about N56m) for him. June 22, 2016 In "Sports"