Kylian Mbappe will meet with Paris Saint Germain’s medical team before a decision is made on whether he will be on the bench to face Atalanta in the Champions League, says Thomas Tuchel. The France superstar suffered a serious ankle sprain in PSG’s 1-0 Coupe de France final victory over Saint-Etienne last month and scans ruled him out for around three weeks, seemingly confirming his absence against Atalanta. Head coach Tuchel later said Mbappe needs “a miracle” to play in the quarter-final, which will take place in Lisbon next Wednesday, while the World Cup winner sat out the Coupe de la Ligue final versus Lyon. Tuchel was again asked about Mbappe’s availability prior to PSG’s friendly against Sochaux on Wednesday and was unable to provide a definitive answer when asked if he will feature against the Serie A side. “For Mbappe, I have no idea,” he told beIN SPORTS. “He works hard, but he’s short, super short. We will see on Saturday with the doctor whether it is possible that he is on the bench against Atalanta.” Fotmob Vanguard Kylian Mbappe requires "a miracle" to have a chance of playing in Paris Saint-Germain's Champions League quarter-final against Atalanta, according to boss Thomas Tuchel. The France international sprained his ankle in last week's Coupe de France final victory over Saint-Etienne and scans on Monday revealed he will miss around three… July 31, 2020 In "Sports" Thiago Silva had mixed feelings after Paris Saint-Germain won the Coupe de France, saying he was sad for the injured Kylian Mbappe. Mbappe was substituted in the first half of PSG's 1-0 victory over Saint-Etienne in the final on Friday after a tackle by Loic Perrin, who was sent off.… July 26, 2020 In "Sports" Neymar scored the winning goal as Paris Saint-Germain defeated 10-man Saint-Etienne 1-0 in the French Cup final on Friday, the first competitive fixture in the country since March 11 following the coronavirus pandemic. However, coach Thomas Tuchel faces an anxious wait over the fitness of Kylian Mbappe ahead of next… July 25, 2020 In "Sports"