BENIN – THE candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the September 19, 2020 Governorship election in Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki, has vowed to tame aggressors called ‘lions and tigers’ sponsored to cause violence in the election. He made the promise at Ward 10 Campaign rally on Sunday in Opoji, Esan Central Local Government Area of Edo State. His pledge to tame the aggressors followed intelligence report, urging him to suspend his campaign at the maternal home of a prominent politician in Opoji. His comment comes weeks after one of the candidates in the election was seen addressing suspected hoodlums codenamed ‘lions and tigers’ in a video. While urging PDP members and supporters not to succumb to threats, Obaseki said, “we will tame the lions and tigers” in Edo State. He assured that residents of the area that “adequate security would be provided on election day”, he said. The PDP candidate promised to construct the Opoji-Irrua road and attract more development to the area if re-elected. Vanguard News Nigeria Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo, seeking re-election in the September 19 Edo governorship election, says he is determined to deal with thugs that may be used to disrupt the elections. He spoke in his ward — Opoji, Esan Central Local Government Area of the state — during his electioneering in… August 23, 2020 In "News" Says Obaseki's fight against godfatherism will earn him second term Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Council for Edo 2020 gubernatorial election and Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has said the party and its candidate, Mr Godwin Obaseki, will resist plans by the All Progressives Congress (APC)… August 4, 2020 In "News" As PDP urges INEC not to allow Edo sleepwalk into disaster The Edo State Governor and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in September 19, 2020, gubernatorial election, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has concluded his ward-to-ward reelection campaign in Edo North Senatorial District, with a promise to protect the interests… August 16, 2020 In "Edo Decides"