President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered an end to estimated billing across the federation. This is just as he directed the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, NERC, to commence direct mass metering. In a statement, NERC said: “In response to media reports that there is an increase in tariffs for Nigerians, NERC wishes to clarify that tariff reviews going forward will only follow service-based principles. Under these service-based principles DISCOs will only be able to review tariff rates for customers when they consult with customers, commit to increasing the number of hours of supply per day and quality of service. “In all cases, poor and vulnerable Nigerians will not experience any increase. In line with these expectations, DISCOs are directed to engage with their customers on a Service Based Tariff structure. Under the Service Based Tariff Structure, DISCOs can only review tariffs for customers under the following conditions: “Customers are consulted and communicated a guaranteed level of electricity service by the DISCOs based on hours of supply Customers are metered No estimated billing through the strict enforcement of the capping regulation. This means that unmetered customers will not experience any cost increase beyond what is chargeable to metered customers in the same area. “Even under the above conditions, there will be no change in tariff for the most vulnerable as tariffs for those consuming 50KW or less remain frozen. Customers receiving less than 12 hours of supply will also not experience any change in tariffs. “In addition, the President has directed that there should be a nationwide mass-metering programme in an effort by the Federal Government to put a stop to estimated and arbitrary billing for electricity. He has also approved a waiver of the import levy on meters, so that those that do not have meters can be supplied as early as possible at reasonable costs. “The general public and all stakeholders in the power sector are by this statement urged to disregard any reports of an arbitrary tariff increase affecting Nigerians.” Vanguard ...As Nigerians may likely pay more for power from next month By Chris Ochayi - Abuja The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, NERC, declared last night that electricity tariff reviews going forward will only follow service-based principles. The NERC was apparently responding to media reports that the President, Muhammadu Buhari has… August 27, 2020 In "News" As Nigerians may likely pay more for power from next month By Chris Ochayi The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, NERC, declared Wednesday night that electricity tariff reviews going forward will only follow service-based principles. The NERC was apparently responding  to media reports that the President, Muhammadu Buhari has approved an… August 26, 2020 In "News" …Says increase subject to public consultation By Michael Eboh The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, NERC, Monday, denied hiking electricity tariffs, stating that the review of the Multi-Year Tariff Order, MYTO, does not mean an immediate increase in tariff for electricity consumers. However, electricity distribution companies, under the aegis of Association… January 6, 2020 In "News"