The Federal Government, yesterday, disclosed that the $2 billion Dangote Fertilizer plant has been fully completed and set for commissioning in the coming months. According to a statement by Dangote Fertilizer Limited, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono, stated this during a facility tour of the Dangote Fertilizer plant in Lagos over the weekend. He averred that the company was very important to the achievement of the Federal Government’s Agricultural Transformation Agenda, aimed at boosting food security in the country. According to him, Aliko Dangote’s investment in fertilizer production would contribute to improved farm yields and agricultural productivity, which are critical to Nigeria’s long-term food security, while he commended Dangote for keying into the Federal Government’s Presidential Initiative on Fertilizer aimed at bringing down the cost of fertilisers across the country. He said, “The capacity of Dangote Fertilizer is enough to change the way fertilizer is being used in this country. We are going to complement his efforts and support him in this regard.  The challenge of the supply of fertilizer is going to be solved by the Dangote Fertilizer plant. I can now go home and sleep. “The Federal Government wants to make sure that Nigerians have enough food to eat. We can only achieve the objective with enough fertilizer in the country. I am extremely proud of Aliko Dangote for what he is doing in this country. I think no other person has probably done half of what he is doing in the area of investment. “If we can have just additional two of his type, this country will be completely different. I think all we have been trying to do as far as agricultural development is concerned, has been captured by the Dangote Fertilizer plant. Nigeria has a potential for agriculture. Obviously, Dangote Fertiliser is going to help the government and the farmers.” Nanono added that the Federal Government wanted to make sure that Nigerians have enough food to eat, adding that this goal can only achieved through availability of fertilizer. “That’s why we consider Dangote Fertilizer as a partner in progress in achieving food sufficiency in the country,” he said. The minister also called on the company to assist the Federal Government’s agricultural mechanisation scheme as well as extension services for small scale farmers, noting that the support was needed for the success of the mechanisation scheme, which he said, is expected to cover 632 local government areas across the nation. Nanono stated that small-scale farmers were going to benefit from Dangote Fertiliser, noting that “There is need for us to support small scale farmers who have been helping the government in respect to food security. Once the small-scale farmers get all the necessary support, there will be agricultural revolution in this country. “Some of you will remember when the Federal Government initiated a policy to support local production of rice in Nigeria and discourage the importation of rice. Some vested interest kicked against it. The breakout of COVID-19 pandemic and the closure of Nigerian borders, shows that the Federal Government took the right decision regarding rice policy. Now, we are eating our own rice. The small-scale farmers have also been contributing to Nigeria’s self-sufficiency in rice production in the country.” Giving update on the fertilizer project, Group Executive Director, Strategy, Capital Projects & Portfolio Development, Dangote Industries Limited, Chief Devakumar Edwin, stated that  Dangote Fertilizer Limited has a well-equipped fertiliser soil testing laboratory to ensure efficiency of the product for farmers. He explained: “The laboratory will enable us analyse and identify a particular soil deficiency. Applying the right fertiliser to soil will enable it yield maximum result. The goal of our soil testing is to provide an accurate assessment of the soil’s fertility to make fertiliser recommendations.  A proper soil test will help ensure the application of enough fertiliser to meet the requirements of the crop while taking advantage of the nutrients already present in the soil.” Edwin maintained that Dangote Fertilizer would make Nigeria become self-sufficient in fertilizer production and have the capacity to export the products to other African countries. “Right now, farmers are forced to utilise whatever fertilizer that is available as they have no choice, but we need to know that the fertiliser that will work in one state may not be suitable in another state, as they may not have the same soil type and composition,” he said. “The same fertilizer you use for sorghum may not be the fertiliser you will use for sugar cane,” he added. Vanguard President of the Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, has vowed to crash the price of fertilizer before the end next year, so as to boost agricultural production and guarantee food security in the country. October 17, 2016 In "News" Says COVID-19 border closure made Nigeria food self-sufficient By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mohammed Nanono, at the weekend, disclosed that the Federal Government will soon boost farmers’ activities with a stimulus of over N600 billion. Nanono made known in a statement signed by… August 30, 2020 In "News" …says COVID-19 border closure made Nigeria food self-sufficient By Gabriel Ewepu THE Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mohammed Nanono, at the weekend, disclosed that Federal Government will soon boost farmers’ activities with stimulus of over N600 billion. Nanono made known in a statement signed by the Director Information, Theodore… August 30, 2020 In "News"