A top US-based attorney and Founder of Stonecroft Attorneys,  Barrister Michael Onuwabhagbe Akhidenor, has emerged the Edo Pride Star of the Diaspora. Akhidenor,  known in the social circle as MICO,  is the Lead Attorney at Stonecroft  Attorneys, a professional law corporation with its headquarters in  Los Angeles, California, was conferred with the prized Edo Pride honour after a rigorous and thorough screening process by a panel of distinguished judges. According to the chief promoter of the Edo  Pride project, Mr. Kazeem Bello-Osagie, Akhidenor’s emergence as the Edo Pride  Star of the Diaspora for the month of August, was truly deserved. He said Akhidenor was at the forefront of impacting positive legal values and has offered immense support to the Edo community in the United States of America and the United Kingdom. Bello-Osagie, while commending Barrister Akhindenor for mentoring a huge number of Nigerian lawyers in the USA,  said the awardee was a detribalised Edo son worthy of emulation, serving as an inspiration to the next generation, that there are possibilities in impossibilities. Bello-Osagie added that the awardee of the Edo Pride Star of the month of August  was inspired “by his statesman father of blessed memory, Barrister Lawrence Akhidenor, who was a legal luminary.” A member of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, and the California Bar Association, Akhindenor hails from Ekpoma, Esan West, Edo State, and has an uncanny penchant for handling near impossible briefs, given his intellectual brilliance, tenacity and determination against all odds. “Akhindenor has succeeded where others have failed and has paved the way for Nigerian lawyers in the Diaspora,” said Bello-Osagie. An entrepreneur extraordinaire, Akhindenor sits on the board of local and international companies, comprising fast food restaurant chain, Micos, with heavy presence in Lekki, Chevron & FCT, Abuja, and has sizeable interest in the real estate sector. The promoter of the social media Edo Pride project, said: “It was indeed a blessing to have Mr Michael Akhidenor as our Star of the Diaspora for the month Of August.” VANGUARD In their usual tradition and fashion of celebrating Edo indigenes, the fast-growing social media platform @edopride has inducted the first civilian governor of the defunct Bendel State, late Professor Ambrose Alli, into the prestigious Hall of Edo Pride. August 7, 2020 In "News" The Edo Pride has commended the first African male bobsleigh team that will represent Nigeria in next year's Olympics games and the Winter Olympics. The record-breaking team, which participated in the European Cup, comprise of Osazee Ulamen, Aaron Omere and Elias Omere, had vowed to make their home country, Nigeria,… July 8, 2020 In "Sports" On Saturday 25th August, 2018 history was made in Benin City, Edo State when the Crown Prince of Benin Kingdom, Prince Ezelekhae Ewuare II, alongside other stakeholders launched Odumalife Foundation. August 29, 2018 In "News"