The Onojie of Ugbegun in Edo, Samuel Obade II, has assured the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that the community would vote massively for it in the Sept. 19 gubernatorial election in the state. The royal father gave the assurance when the PDP campaign train and its candidate, Gov. Godwin Obaseki, paid him a courtesy visit in his palace during the party’s campaign rally in the area. He said that the community would vote to re-elect the governor for him to continue his good works in the state, adding that Obaseki had started well and deserved a second term in office. The monarch expressed optimism that the forthcoming election would be the most peaceful in the history of the state. The royal father said that the governor had taken development to every nook and cranny of the state. He commended him for the development in the community, adding that he had solved most of the problems bedevilling it. Earlier, the PDP candidate told the monarch and his Council of Chiefs that the campaign train was in the community to solicit his blessings for his re-election. He noted that he was conversant with the demands of the community and further assured them that given another four years, they would be met. He noted that the demands of the community were legitimate and the state government was presently looking into them with a view to meeting them. NAN Vanguard News Nigeria Gov. Godwin Obaseki, candidate of the PDP for the Sept. 19 Edo governorship election, on Monday solicited the blessings of the Anegbette community traditional ruler ahead of the polls. August 11, 2020 In "News" ...vows to activate water project in Esan land By Gabriel Enogholase BENIN - GOVERNORSHIP candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the September 19, 2020 election in Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki has assured the family members of late Mrs Clara Oshiomhole in Ewohimi, Esan South East Local Government… August 19, 2020 In "Politics" Ahead the September 10, governorship election in Edo state, the candidates involved in this epic battle are not giving up as they have all embarked on serious campaigns in the 192 wards in the state. The popular candidates are Godwin Obaseki of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu… August 6, 2016 In "News"