U.S. President Donald Trump has claimed he turned Jerusalem into the capital of Israel, even as the Jewish state has long said the city is the seat of its government. Trump, speaking Friday to supporters, also declared that his decision to move the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem was most appreciated by US Christians. Trump slammed previous administrations for not moving the diplomatic mission to bestow U.S. recognition on the Israeli claim to the city. “They never moved the embassy to Jerusalem, thereby making Jerusalem the capital of Israel, which I did,” Trump said. “You know who appreciate it the most, are the evangelical Christians,” he added. Palestinians want the eastern part of Jerusalem for the capital of their future state and the move by Trump was denounced by the Palestinian Authority. The president also claimed “nothing happened” during the ceremony of opening the new embassy, though clashes between Palestinian protesters and Israeli security forces that day left dozens dead in the Gaza Strip. Trump took a specific dig at his predecessor, Barack Obama and vice president Joe Biden, who is running in the November election. “Nobody has been worse to Israel than President Obama and Biden,” said Trump, citing the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran. Vanguard News Arabs have denounced as a slap in the face, President Donald Trump’s decision to move the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, a tectonic shift in US policy for the past decades. December 6, 2017 In "News" Near the olive grove where Christians believe Jesus agonised before his crucifixion, an American visitor spoke of a decision by US President Donald Trump some believe also holds spiritual importance. Phillip Dunn, the 37-year-old pastor of an evangelical Christian church in the US state of South Carolina, said he saw… January 21, 2018 In "News" Global concern mounted on Wednesday ahead of an announcement by US President Donald Trump to recognise Jerusalem as Israel's capital, with Pope Francis joining a list of leaders warning of the potential for dangerous fallout. December 6, 2017 In "News"