BUA, on Friday, signed an agreement with Milleral of Turkey to build its newest flour milling plants in Nigeria with a total milling capacity of 2,400tons per day (3 x 800tpd). When completed in 2021, the plants will bring BUA’s total installed flour milling capacity to 4000tons per day. BUA currently operates an installed flour milling capacity of 1,600 tons per day and five lines of pasta of 720 tons per day. Speaking during the signing ceremony, Abdul Samad Rabiu, Executive Chairman, BUA Group said: “We are excited about this partnership with Milleral to develop our new state-of-the-art flour milling plants in Nigeria with a total milling capacity of 2,400tons per day, bringing BUA’s total installed capacity to 4,000tons per day, upon completion in 2021. “This will further deepen our involvement in the foods processing sector as well as help enhance food security in Nigeria and the West African region.” In his comments, Mustafa Ozdemir, Chairman, Milleral, said: “Milleral intends to bring its experience installing machinery and turnkey plants across the world to bear in building an efficient, advanced and world-class facility for BUA.” Upon completion, this new plant will position BUA as one of the leading players in flour milling in West Africa. BUA Foods is the agribusiness and foods processing division of BUA Group, with diverse investments in the agricultural value chain in sugar, rice, edible oils, flour milling and pasta. BUA currently operates an installed flour milling capacity of 1,600 tons per day and five lines of pasta of 720 tons per day. Milleral has been into manufacturing and installing machinery and turnkey plants for milling grains like wheat, corn, rye, oat to get flour and semolina for 27 years. The firm offers products, plants and services that can appeal the necessities in all parts of the world. VANGUARD BUA Group has extended its investment in the manufacturing sector with a N7.5 billion Pasta factory productionline. Currently, the group has business interests spanning from manufacturing of sugar, cement, flour milling, oil milling, and port concession including real estate , oil and gas and shipping, and is now investing in… April 29, 2010 In "Business" Bua Group has extended its investment in the manufacturing sector with a N7.5 billion pasta factory productionline. Currently, the group has business interests spanning from manufacturing of sugar, cement, flour milling, oil milling, and port concession including real estate , oil and gas and shipping, and is now investing in… April 30, 2010 In "Business" BUA Cement will establish a three million metric tonnes cement plant and 50 megawatts power plant in Guyuk and Lamurde Local Government areas of Adamawa State. This was revealed by the Chairman of BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, when he led a management team on a courtesy call to Governor… July 4, 2020 In "News"