A Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, chieftain in Delta State and Ughelli North PDP Chairmanship aspirant, Olorogun Udu Omo Scott has congratulated Delta State Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP), Chairman elect, Barr. Kingsley Esiso and other executive council members of the part in the state.  In a congratulatory message in Asaba , Scott described emergence of Esiso as Delta PDP Chairman victory as the will of God . Scott commended Governor Ifeanyi Okowa , the members of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP in the State for peacefully organizing the Delta State People’s Democratic Party  congress.  “The Delta PDP Congress I just witnessed is peaceful and I must commend the Delta State Governor Sen Ifeanyi Okowa, members of the People’s Democratic Party for successfully organising an enviable congress.  I have faith in the leadership of Barr Kingsley Esiso because of his antecedents.  Over the years, he has successfully led the party into victory and I am confident, he won’t disappoint us.  For a stronger party, we all need to support Barr Esiso and the newly inaugurated executive council members of the part in the state.” he said. Vanguard A Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, chieftain in Delta State and Ughelli North PDP Chairmanship aspirant, Olorogun Udu Omo Scott has congratulated Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State on his 5th anniversary in his second tenure as the executive governor of the state June 1, 2020 In "News" A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Delta State and Ughelli North PDP chairmanship aspirant, Olorogun Udu Omo Scott has donated face masks, aprons and N10,000 (ten thousand Naira) each to 100 market women in Ughelli North area of the state. July 14, 2020 In "News" Okowa's aide congratulates him on birthday A Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, chieftain in Delta State and Ughelli North PDP Chairmanship aspirant, Olorogun Udu Omo Scott has donated boreholes to Ufuoma, Agbara, Ekiugbo and Ughelli Communities in Ughelli North as part of his birthday celebration in Delta State. Amb Scott Udu… July 29, 2020 In "News"