Al-Qaeda militants in war-torn Yemen executed a dentist accused of spying for the government and guiding US drone strikes targeting the Islamist extremists, a local official said on Sunday. The jihadis shot Motthar al-Youssoufi, then crucified his corpse and left it outside his health centre, the official told AFP on condition of anonymity. The execution took place on Saturday in Somaa, a district of Yemen’s central Al-Baida province, the official added. Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), which is active in Yemen, is considered by the United States as the radical group’s most dangerous branch. The US has carried out a long-running drone campaign in Yemen. The Sunni extremist group has thrived in the chaos of years of civil war between Yemen’s Saudi-backed government and Shiite rebels who control the capital. An AQAP video contained — according to the organisation — a “confession” by the dentist to having worked with government security services, and to having placed microchips to guide US missile strikes. AQAP operates in the Al-Baida province — which is under nominal government control — after retreating from positions in the south and east of the country, the local official added. The group plans to execute another Yemeni accused of spying, and is holding five more men and seven women also accused of espionage, the official said. AQAP has carried out operations against both the Huthis and government forces, as well as sporadic attacks abroad. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula on Sunday confirmed the death of its leader Qassim al-Rimi and appointed a successor, weeks after the US said it had "eliminated" the Islamist militant chief, SITE Intelligence group said. The announcement came in an audio speech delivered by AQAP religious official Hamid bin Hamoud… February 23, 2020 In "Foreign" Al-Qaeda militants in Yemen executed one of their own Thursday after accusing him of spying for the United States, a security official said. March 6, 2014 In "News" Weekend drone strikes in Yemen killed more than 40 suspected Al-Qaeda militants, including 30 on Sunday, days after the jihadist network's Arabian Peninsula offshoot vowed to fight against Western "crusaders". April 20, 2014 In "News"