The Igbo National Council, INC, yesterday, said that  Operation Lion Walk against  killer herdsmen camping in the forests of Igboland has been enforced in over two hundred communities and ten Igbo-speaking states. According to the group’s President, Chilos Godsent, it’s remaining six Igbo states to complete the Operation Lion Walk agenda. He however, called on other communities that have not implemented the agenda to do so early enough before the killer herdsmen would crush them. Also, the INC President warned the Miyetti Allah group to stop its members’  invasion plan and setting up of security outfit as such would be severely defeated. He said: “We note that since the historic launch of Operation Ije  Agu on 15th June 2020, over two hundred communities and pro-Igbo associations and groups across the Igbo nation have taken it upon themselves to comb their forests and evict every trace of the killer herdsmen and all criminal gangs who were illegally hiding in many of our forests. “We sincerely appreciate the compliance of many communities and groups in the enforcement of Operation Ije Agu at this critical time in our history. We will not relent in combing our forests to arrest, dislodge and flush out any trace of the killer herdsmen and other criminal gangs hiding in our forests or patrolling with dangerous arms in the Igbo nation territories. “We note that since the launch of  the operation, hundreds of killer herdsmen and many criminal gangs who were hiding in the various forests in many communities have been evicted from many of these forests while some have relocated deep into the forests or to other forests. “Recently, Miyetti Allah announced that their proposed mischievous nationwide vigilante security outfit is already in force in the thirty six states of Nigeria. “Consequent upon the above, the Igbo National Council (INC) is not in doubt that the Miyetti Allah will regret if they dare step into any community in Igbo  states with arms in disguise of any form.” INC expressed happiness, saying: “We  appreciate that  Operation Ije Agu has taken strong roots in ten states and we are working tirelessly to expand the operation to the remaining six states that have not fully commenced the operation due to logistic and technical issues that are already being addressed. “Finally, the Igbo National Council (INC) wishes to salute the courage and patriotism of  Igbo youths, Igbo communities, traditional vigilante security outfits and pro-Igbo groups that have  risen up to the task of defending the Igbo nation from the several threats of invasion by killer herdsmen and their international allies. “We are not cowards and can never be cowards. We once more reaffirm that open grazing is an  illegal and a  criminal offence in  Igbo land and therefore, any group violating it does so at its own risk. “In  addition, INC worldwide may be compelled to declare Miyetti Allah persona non grata in Igbo states if the group continues to threaten our peaceful existence as a free nation.” Vanguard By Chinonso Alozie - Owerri The Igbo National Council, INC, Monday said that it has launched Operation Lion Walk to take over the forest as against the continued reported killings by armed herdsmen in Igboland. The President of INC, in Owerri, Chilos Godsent, disclosed this after he said that the… June 15, 2020 In "News" RESIDENTS of 10 communities in Awka North local government area of Anambra State have lamented the destruction of their farmlands by suspected  herdsmen. June 23, 2020 In "News" FOLLOWING the incessant destructive activities of herdsmen to the rural farmers in Igbo land, the leadership of the association of South East Town Unions, ASETU, has renewed its call on the South East governors to cause their Houses of Assembly to urgently enact anti-open grazing laws, saying that their rural… July 9, 2020 In "News"