Libyan UN-recognised Government of National Accord (GNA) on Friday said the interior minister had been suspended after militia gunmen fired on peaceful protesters last week. “Interior Minister Fathi Bashagha has been temporarily suspended” and will face an inquiry “on his statements about the protests and incidents in Tripoli and other cities”, the GNA said. He will be questioned on the authorisations and permits granted to the demonstrators, the security arrangements in place and the “violations committed”, it said. Demonstrations began on Sunday in Tripoli, the seat of the GNA, against poor public services and living conditions, and gunmen fired on the crowd. Similar shootings occurred on Monday and Wednesday. Gunmen on Wednesday attacked a peaceful demonstration by “firing live ammunition indiscriminately,” Bashagha had said. The gunmen also kidnapped demonstrators, “sowing panic among the population and threatening security and public order”, he said, promising to “protect unarmed civilians from the brutality of a gang of thugs”. At least six people were kidnapped from a Tripoli district by a militia overseen by the GNA, and many others were wounded, according to Human Rights Watch. Bashagha said in a statement posted on the interior ministry’s Facebook page early on Saturday that he was ready to submit to an investigation. But he demanded any hearing be broadcast live for the sake of transparency. Libya has endured almost a decade of violent chaos since the 2011 NATO-backed uprising that toppled and killed veteran dictator Moamer Kadhafi. The country’s main military faultline is between forces that back the GNA and those that support eastern strongman Khalifa Haftar, who runs a rival administration. But there are also power struggles within each area. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Hundreds of young Libyans protested in Tripoli for a third consecutive day to decry deteriorating living conditions and corruption amid a heavy security presence, an AFP correspondent said. Voicing anger at extended shortages of power, water and fuel in the oil-rich North African country, the demonstrators, including teenagers and children,… August 26, 2020 In "Foreign" Recep Tayyip Erdogan held talks with Libyan Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj in Istanbul on Sunday, just days after the Turkish leader said he was ready to send troops into Libya if requested by Tripoli. The closed-door meeting, which was not on Erdogan's official agenda, took place in Istanbul's Ottoman-era Dolmabahce… December 15, 2019 In "Foreign" Turkey will send troops to Libya at the request of Tripoli as soon as next month, President Tayyip Erdogan said on Thursday, putting the north African country’s conflict at the center of wider regional frictions. Libya’s internationally recognized Government of National Accord (GNA) has been fending off a months-long offensive… December 26, 2019 In "News"