A prominent women’s rights campaigner and member of the Afghan negotiating team that will hold talks with the Taliban, Fawzia Koofi, has been wounded in a gun attack near Kabul, officials said Saturday. Gunmen opened fire on Koofi and her sister on Friday when they were returning from a meeting to offer condolences in the province of Parwan, interior ministry spokesman Tariq Arian told AFP. The attack took place when the two women had got out of their car to purchase something, Arian said. Koofi, a member of parliament and strong critic of the Taliban, was shot in her right hand, he said, adding that she was in a stable condition. No group has claimed the attack so far. The chief negotiator of Afghan negotiating team, Mohammad Masoom Stanekzai, confirmed the attack on Koofi. He said security agencies were investigating the incident. The politician survived a previous assassination attempt in 2010, when gunmen fired at her as she was returning to Kabul after a function for International Women’s Day. Koofi, a former deputy speaker of parliament, is one of the four women negotiators in the Afghan negotiating team. The group will soon start talks with the Taliban aimed at ending the conflict that has ravaged Afghanistan for 19 years. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. An Afghan girl who shot dead two Taliban fighters after they gunned down her parents said she was ready to confront any other insurgents who might try to attack her. Qamar Gul, 15, killed the militants when they stormed her home last week in a remote village in the central… July 23, 2020 In "Foreign" A Taliban suicide bomber with concealed explosives in a turban on Tuesday assassinated former Afghan president Burhanuddin Rabbani, who was leading government peace efforts, police said. September 20, 2011 In "News" A suicide bomber on Wednesday killed at least 26 people, many of them teenagers, after detonating a device among a crowd of people in Kabul who were celebrating the Persian new year holiday, officials said. March 21, 2018 In "News"