Manchester City legend David Silva has posted a farewell goodbye to the Etihad after he played his final game at the ground on Friday night. The 34-year-old – who will leave the club later this month – played nine minutes in the 2-1 win against Real Madrid to keep his Champions League dream alive. But even though he still may feature for City again this season with Pep Guardiola’s men to face Lyon on Saturday, he will not feature again at the Etihad. That is because the remaining Champions League fixtures will all take place in Lisbon with the quarter-finals and semi-finals a one-legged affair. The European Cup has alluded Silva in his ten years spent at the club after arriving from Valencia in 2010. After helping his team-mates earn a 4-2 aggregate win against Los Blancos, Silva took to social media, where he posted a picture of himself standing inside City’s stadium looking out at the pitch and the stands. Silva – who has won four Premier League titles and two FA Cups with the Citizens – is reportedly set to join Lazio on a free transfer. It has been claimed that the Spanish playmaker has been offered £52,000-a-week by the Rome outfit, as well as a private jet and a luxury pad. Vanguard Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola hopes David Silva will be fit for next week's Champions League clash against Real Madrid after the midfielder was injured during the 2-0 win against West Ham. Silva limped off in the closing moments at the Etihad Stadium on Wednesday after being caught by a… February 20, 2020 In "Sports" Pep Guardiola claimed he has never seen a player like David Silva following the midfielder's performance in Manchester City's 5-0 hammering of Newcastle United. Silva set up goals for Gabriel Jesus and Raheem Sterling and scored a fine free-kick as City made light work of Steve Bruce's men in Wednesday's… July 9, 2020 In "News" Barcelona have offered Man City player Bernardo Silva key squad status in an attempt to bring him to the Nou Camp. According to The Telegraph, Barca are keen to sign the Portuguese playmaker and have given him the chance to become an important first-team player. The offer would make Silva,… August 10, 2020 In "Sports"