The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has said it would deploy no fewer than 20,000 ad-hoc staff for the conduct of the September 19 governorship poll in Edo State. Professor Bolade Eyinla, the Technical Advisor to INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, said this during a virtual meeting with journalists in Edo organised by the International Press Council, IPC, on the role of journalists in Edo election. Eyinla said the recruitment of the 20,000 ad-hoc staff would be done through INEC’s portal which he said had been opened. He said that National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, members serving in Edo would constitute a larger percentage of the number of the ad-hoc staff, adding that the rest would be selected from the INEC ad-hoc recruitment portal. “The youth corps members will constitute the larger percentage because they will be deployed mostly as presiding officers. The online recruitment is essential to create a database of election workers toward the conduct of the election. “Also ongoing is the training of all security personnel to be deployed for the election. INEC has also come up with a code of conduct and rules of engagement for the security agencies. “The code of conduct and rules of engagement will be distributed to all the security personnel deployed for the election to guide them properly.” Vanguard News Nigeria. AIDES of Governor Godwin Obaseki and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole engaged in war of words yesterday as security operatives foiled an attack on Obaseki’s convoy in Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State. August 14, 2020 In "News" By Ozioruva Aliu - Benin-City Victor Oshioke, an aide to the suspended All Progressive Congress (APC) National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who hails from Apana, has debunked the allegations that the attack on Obaseki's convoy by thugs was sponsored by Oshiomhole. Oshioke in his reaction alleged that the "gunmen" were… August 14, 2020 In "Politics" The chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, has promised automatic employment to members of the National Youth Service Corp, NYSC, who “do exceptionally well during elections” as INEC ad hoc staff. February 21, 2019 In "News"