The Minister of Information and Culture Alhaji Lai Mohammed says President Muhammadu Buhari will leave behind, the legacy of massive and sustainable infrastructure development in Nigeria. The minister stated this on Thursday during the inspection of the Loko-Oweto bridge over River Benue in Nasarawa and Benue states. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports the Ministers of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, Special Duties, George Akume and a team of journalists are on the inspection tour of the bridge and road projects. Speaking at the Oweto end of the bridge which is about 104km to Makurdi in Benue state, Mohammed said the tour is to showcase to Nigerians the efforts the Buhari administration is making to build the legacy of infrastructural development. The minister recalled  that he, recently in company with the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi inspected the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail project, which is near completion He said the Loko-Oweto bridge project is another testimony that the administration in investing in enduring infrastructure development. NAN reports the 2.2km, either way, dual carriage bridge being financed with Sukuk loan has reached 97.3 per cent completion and opened for vehicular movement. The minister reiterated that all the loans taken by the government are being used for the development of critical infrastructure that will benefit every Nigerians and outlive their repayment periods. “Yes, we have taken loans but we are making very judicious use of the loans. “While the loans can have a lifespan of 15 years to 20 years,  the roads, bridges, and other infrastructure we are constructing will have the life span of 50 to 60 years and will outlive many of us,” he said. Speaking on the importance of the bridge, he said it linked Nasarawa to Benue states and connected the South East to the Northern parts of the country. He said besides reducing travel time by over five hours, the bridge will boost agricultural production, aid integration, and check insecurity. speaking in the same vein, Fashola explained that “for a traveller coming from Cross River to Abuja by road, ordinarily he will have to go from Calabar to Ikom, Ogoja, Katsina-Ala and then join Makurdi and come through Lafia, Keffi, Awkanga into Abuja.  NAN reports the Loko-Oweto bridge over River Benue in Nasarawa and Benue states was awarded in November 2011 to Messrs RCC Nig. Ltd. at the cost of over N51.6 billion. The construction of the bridge and the linking of the approach roads, being financed with Sukuk loan has reached 97.3 per cent completion and opened for vehicular movement. NAN reports that the 104km Oweto to Markurdi approach road to the bridge had been completed while the 76km Loko to Nasarawa approach road has reached 24 km completion. Following the marching order by Fashola, the Gilto Construction Company handling Nasarawa approach road to the bridge has assured it’s completion before the end of the year when the entire project will be delivered. Vanguard On Nov. 11, 2015, President Muhammadu Buhari swore Alhaji Lai Mohammed in as the Minister of Information and Culture to, among others, communicate government policies and programmes, build a positive image for the country and promote national consciousness. May 19, 2019 In "News" The Federal Government has said that it has kept its words by commencing job creation across the country in fulfillment of its campaign promises. June 13, 2016 In "News" About 10,000 Nigerians were employed during the construction of the Abuja Light Rail Project, which was recently commissioned by President Muhammadu Buhari, while 100,000 more will be directly or indirectly employed when the project begins full operation. August 2, 2018 In "Business"