In their usual tradition and fashion of celebrating Edo indigenes, the fast-growing social media platform @edopride has inducted the first civilian governor of the defunct Bendel State, late Professor Ambrose Alli, into the prestigious Hall of Edo Pride. According to the promoter of the Edo Pride platform, Mr. Kazeem Bello-Osagie, “the  late Professor Ambrose Alli was a peacemaker, an Edo icon, highly revered by the Edo people, especially for the legacy he left behind in the educational sector, for the then Bendel State, where he served as a one-time, civilian governor.” Bello-Osagie added that “the Hall of Edo Pride was introduced to say a big thank you to our heroes, both living and dead. “The Hall of Edo Pride is for Edo indigenes and residents of Edo State, regardless of their state of origin. “They have excelled in the chosen fields, impacting the Edo people, building and leaving behind lasting legacies. “The prerequisites for selection for induction will be strictly on merit for this those who have lived a life of service.” Other categories it introduced since inception, which has been well received, include Star of the Diaspora, Star banker of the Month, and Stunner of the Week. VANGUARD By Agbonkhese Oboh Edo Pride, the platform launched to promote the culture of the Edo people and celebrate those that have excelled in their fields, has been received by both indigenes and non-indigenes of Edo State,  who described it as a breath of fresh air. On reasons why the platform… June 28, 2020 In "News" In celebration of the life and legacies of former civilian governor of old Bendel State, (now Edo and Delta States), late Prof. Ambrose Folorunso Alli, Governor Godwin Obaseki will be leading the state’s delegation to the 29th Memorial Day Celebrations in his honour of Prof. Alli, on September 22, in… September 19, 2018 In "News" The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, will lead a train of global icons, including business and political leaders, activists, academics, and civil society groups, to Ekpoma, in Edo Central Senatorial district, for the 29th Memorial Day Celebration of former governor of old Bendel State (now Edo and Delta states),… September 21, 2018 In "News"