In preparation for local government election which is two months ahead, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has elected its new executives in Bauchi state to pilot the affairs of the party for the next four years. The party elected its leaders in a congress held in Bauchi at the weekend. At the end of the congress, the incumbent chairman of the party, Alhaji Hamza Akuyam like other executives, was re-elected for a second term after scoring about 3,000 votes in an unopposed contest. Speaking on behalf of the elected officials of the party, the state chairman, Akuyam promised to work towards the advancement of the party in the state. While thanking party members for giving them another mandate, Akuyam said that they will consolidate on the democratic dividends laid down by PDP led administration in the state to further deepen democracy. He enjoined other party stakeholders not to relent in standing for justice and being transparent in their dealings in party affairs Also speaking, the state governor Bala Mohammad represented by his deputy, Baba Tela, commended the delegates for exhibiting high sense of maturity during the exercise while commending the chairman and members of the congress electoral committee from Abuja for what he called a ‘satisfactory’ job. VANGUARD Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Bauchi State has rejected the decision of Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to declare Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area election inconclusive. March 12, 2019 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has alleged that the All Progressives Congress (APC) was planning a mass arrest of top PDP leaders in Bauchi State through compromised security personnel. March 23, 2019 In "Elections 2019 Updates" Alhaji Hamza Akuyam, Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Bauchi State, has challenged All Progressives Congress, APC, to go to court if it has issues with the re-election of Speaker, House of Representatives, Mr. Yakubu Dogara. February 27, 2019 In "Politics"