Mr Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming governorship election in Edo, says his ‘SIMPLE’ agenda is specific, realistic and achievable. Ize-Iyamu said this on Saturday in Benin at an interactive session with media practitioners in the state. He explained that the ‘SIMPLE’ agenda encapsulated the area of focus of his administration if he won the Sept. 19 election. According to him, the acronym ‘SIMPLE’ stands for Security, Infrastructure Development, Manpower Development, Public/Private Partnership, Leadership by example and Employment creation. The governorship candidate also said that the agenda, which had been put into a book form, was also a ‘SMART’ document. “By this, I mean it is Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic and of course Time-bound,” he said. Ize-Iyamu explained that he decided to document his agenda for the people of the state to see so that he could be held accountable should he derail from his promises after winning the election. According to him, a government must be accountable and transparent, and as such, those who want to govern must put what they want to do for the people in black and white. He added that so much could be done by any government that was focused, committed and dedicated to ensuring a better life for the people of the state. The APC candidate noted that it was not enough to start a project but to see to its end. “So we are looking at what we can achieve in four years because a governor’s contract in the office is for a period of four years,” he said. Ize-Iyamu maintained that his motivation for running for the office of the governor of Edo was to make a difference. He, however, called for partnership with the media for a change in the narratives. According to him, the media should be in serious partnership with the government so as to act as checks and balances on the government on behalf of the people. Similarly, Mr Peter Esele, an APC Chieftain and former ally of Gov. Godwin Obaseki, has stressed the need for the people of the state to believe in Ize-Iyamu’s ‘SIMPLE’ agenda, saying it was about the simplicity that life was all about. “To solve societal problems, you must come around to look at things the way they ought to be. This is because the fabric of the society is built on simple things of life,” he said. The former Labour leader urged the media to constantly hold leaders and politicians accountable for promises made during electioneering and their parties’ manifestoes. Vanguard News FORMER Member, House of Representatives and Vice Chairman, National Campaign Council, All Progressives Congress, APC, for the September 19 Governorship Elections in Edo State, Hon Patrick Obahiagbon, aka Igodomigodo, has described the political  union of All Progressives Congress, APC, Candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and former National Chairman of the party, Comrade… July 11, 2020 In "News" The candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the Edo Governorship election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has gotten a boost with the backing of supporters and representatives of one of the former aspirants, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi, who announced their endorsement and donation of campaign Secretariat to the APC candidate on Saturday. July 19, 2020 In "News" BENIN—A governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressive Congress, APC, in the forthcoming governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu,  has alleged that his house was surveyed several times  by unidentified person for an alleged possible attack. March 11, 2020 In "News"