Residents and sympathisers, on Saturday night, cried as men of Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, LASEMA, and Fire Service recovered the body of three-year-old Seyi Jebose from the well she fell into at their 1, Gemini Bus Stop, Baruwa, Ipaja, Lagos, residence. The LASEMA Response Team, LRT, recovered the body in an operation that began at about 7:42p.m., on Saturday. According to reports, Seyi fell through the rusty cover of the well while she playing, without the adults noticing the incident. The body of the girl was later discovered in the well by a search party that was raised after her parents declared her missing. Director-General of LASEMA, Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, confirmed the incident. According to Oke-Osanyintolu, “further investigation revealed that Seyi Jebose fell through the rusty cover of the well while playing in the compound, where she lives with her parents. “With the combined efforts of LASEMA, Lagos State Fire Service and NPF Alagolo Division, the girl was brought out of the well and rushed to Solad Hospital, Maria Street, Baruwa Ipaja, where she was confirmed dead on arrival. “The body has been handed over to the family members and Police officers from Alagolo Police Station, led by one Inspector Abumere.” VANGUARD Rev. Sr.Henrietta Alokha, an administrator at Bethlehem Girls College, Abule Ado, Amuwo Odofin local government area of Lagos state lost her life in the explosion which occurred on Sunday morning. Late Rev. Sr. Henrietta Alokha rescued all the children under her care from the explosion and could not make it… March 16, 2020 In "News" A yet to be identified woman narrowly escaped death, Saturday evening, when a container that fell off a truck on Iyana Ipaja Bridge, landed on her legs, cutting the foot off. February 8, 2020 In "News" The Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, has confirmed the collapse of a storey building in Isheri Magodo, Lagos, killing a mother and three children. October 12, 2019 In "News"