The Director-General/CEO of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Bashir Jamoh has commended the Nigerian Navy for the successful enforcement of the new anti-piracy law in Nigeria. In a commendation letter to the Naval Headquarters, Dr Bashir noted the commendable achievements of the Nigerian Navy in the discharge of its responsibilities on security and other related matters. “In this regard, he expressed the Agency’s appreciation on the high level of professionalism and expertise exhibited by the Nigerian Navy in its collaborative efforts with NIMASA especially in the enforcement of Nigeria’s Suppression of Piracy and Other Maritime Offences Act 2019”, he said. It could be recalled that the Nigerian Navy recently secured a conviction for the first time under the new anti-piracy law of 3 of 9 accused persons involved in the hijack of an Equatorial Guinea flagged vessel, MV Elobey VI off Equatorial Guinea coast. A statement by Commodore Suleiman Dahun, Director of Naval Information said, “While assuring the Nigerian Navy of NIMASA’s continuous cooperation, the Director-General further appreciated the Nigerian Navy for keeping with its traditions and ensuring safer maritime boundaries and internal waters to the benefit of the country and the international community.” VANGUARD THE Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, is set to test the new anti-piracy law with the intercepted Chinese fishing vessel Hailufeng 11 where about ten pirates who hijacked the vessel were arrested. The vessel had been licensed to fish in Côte d’Ivoire. May 20, 2020 In "Business" AS the maritime security ar chitecture currently being deployed by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, begins to yield results, the International Maritime Organisation, IMO, has reversed its assessment of the nation’s piracy rating to positive. June 10, 2020 In "Business" The Nigerian Government has handed over a fishing vessel, `Marine 707’, suspected to be carrying out illegal activities in the Gulf of Guinea to Ghanaian authorities for further investigation and possible prosecution. Nigeria also handed over 51 crew members including 48 Ghanaians and three South Korea nationals to the Governments… June 7, 2020 In "News"