NIGER DELTA Enterprise Initiative, NDEI, Monday, said the forensic audit of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, should continue as planned, to determine how the N15 trillion allocated to the Commission in the last 19 years was spent without result. President of the group, George Kerley, in a statement, said: “In 19 years, NDDC has received about fifteen trillion naira in allocation yet there is almost nothing to show. No first-class quality roads, or bridges or schools or related infrastructure.” “Roads and related infrastructure built through NDDC contracts in the past years have been known to last for less than two years. This should not be so. “Multi-billion naira projects for which huge sums have been released to contracts have either been completely abandoned or poorly completed. It is important to keep a tab on such high-value projects and interrogate the contractors who absconded with monies meant for development projects. “The decision of the Federal Government to conduct a forensic audit on the operations and activities of the Commission is a timely one that must be applauded by all well-meaning Niger Deltans. “Most of all, the fact that this will be done under the supervision of the Ministry of Niger Delta led by a former Governor of a Niger Delta State, Akwa Ibom State, the highest oil-producing state in the Niger Delta, is also a welcome development. “The fact that Akpabio is also a former member of the Upper House of the National Assembly is also a strong value-added bonus. “Hopefully, we expect that the honourable Minister will ensure and oversee the deployment of timely and sustainable infrastructure across the Niger Delta just as he delivered in his 8-year tenure as Governor of Akwa Ibom State where he was nicknamed the ‘Uncommon Transformer’. “The Niger Delta is in dire need of world-class infrastructure and it is our belief that Godswill Akpabio has what it takes to bring much of this to fruition especially the long-delayed East-West road,” he said. VANGUARD STAKEHOLDERS in Niger Delta recognized that the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, stated the obvious when he declared, Monday, at the investigative hearing of the House of Representatives Ad-hoc Committee into the activities of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, that lawmakers benefit immensely from Commission’s contracts, revealing that… July 25, 2020 In "News" Minister of Niger Delta, Senator Goodwill Akpabio has said that that forensic audit of the activities of the  Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC was necessary to uncover the alleged illegalities that had taken place there. November 26, 2019 In "News" Executive Director, Projects of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, and Chairman of NDDC Contracts Verification Committee, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh, in this interview, speaks on findings made so far on contracts awarded by the Commission. Ojougboh, a chieftain of All Progressives Congress, APC, also talks about the Supreme Court verdict on… January 19, 2020 In "News"