The Kano branch of Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), has on Wednesday directed its members to sell petrol at N150 per litre. The IPMAN chairman, Bashir Dan-Malam, gave the directive in a statement made available to newsmen in Kano. Dan-Malam said the directive followed the new price modulation announced by the Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC) and has accordingly instructed its members to comply by selling the product at N150 per litre. According to him, “the directive was also in compliance with the government’s earlier statement that it would review upward or downward the price of the commodity on monthly basis depending on the price at the International market. “Please be informed that the Management has approved the ex-depot price of petroleum products including Premium motor spirit (petrol) at N138. 62 per litre. “Similarly, the private depots had also increased their price as they would sell the commodity to their members at N139.5 per litre. “All members under our jurisdiction are therefore asked to comply with the new price regime by making sure no one sells above the approved selling of N150 per litre”. Recall that the PPMC had in a memo signed by its Manager Sales, Mohammed Bello on Tuesday, August 4, 2020, fixed the depot price of premium motor spirit, known as petrol at N138. 62 per litre. Vanguard The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) in Kano State says the association has no plan to sell petrol above the government’s approved price of N145 per litre. April 2, 2019 In "Business" THE leadership of Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, IPMAN, has dismissed media report that it had directed its members to sell petrol below the official pump price of N145 a litre. February 20, 2019 In "News" The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), has urged the general public to disregard statements on purported price reduction of petrol pump price to N140 per litre from the present N145. February 19, 2019 In "News"