Pan-African investment company, Heirs Holdings has announced the appointment of Dan Okeke as Group Executive Director. The Group in a statement said the appointment took effect from August 01, 2020. According to the statement, Mr Okeke joins following a distinguished three-decade career at the United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA), where he most recently served as an Executive Director, responsible for leading consumer, commercial and public-sector businesses. “At HH, he will be responsible for business coordination and growth across Heirs Holdings’ portfolio of pan-African investments in the power, financial services, oil and gas, hospitality, real estate, healthcare, and financial technology sectors. “Heirs Holdings is a family-owned investment company committed to improving lives and transforming Africa.  Our portfolio spans the power, oil and gas, financial services, hospitality, real estate, and healthcare sectors, operating in twenty-three countries worldwide. “Driven by the Africapitalism philosophy of the Group’s founder, Tony Elumelu, which positions the private sector as the catalyst of African growth and seeks both social and economic returns on investment, Heirs Holdings invests for the long-term, bringing strategic capital, sector expertise, a track record of business turnaround accomplishment and operational excellence to companies within its investment portfolio. Celebrating its tenth anniversary this year, Heirs Holdings has recorded consistent business success across its portfolio of investments”, the Group said. Commenting on the appointment, Chairman, Heirs Holdings, Tony Elumelu, stated: “As we continue to grow in scale and complexity, Dan’s appointment demonstrates our ongoing commitment to institutionalisation.  We have always recognised the need to invest in human capital.  This announcement is a clear demonstration of our intent and determination to create sustainable value in all our business operations.” “I am delighted to take on this new challenge and look forward to contributing towards the fulfillment of Heirs Holdings’ objective of improving lives and transforming the Continent,” Mr Okeke stated on his appointment. Vanguard  The Board of Heirs Holdings today announced the appointment of Emmanuel Nnorom as Group Chief Executive Officer. Mr Nnorom previously served as chief executive of Heirs Holdings’ affiliate Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc and will join the Heirs Holdings’ Board, reporting directly to the Group Chairman, Tony Elumelu. The appointment… June 1, 2017 In "News" Cairo (Egypt) — As a further demonstration of the African Export - Import Bank’s (“Afrexim”) mandate to facilitate the growth of intra-Africa trade and support the development of African businesses, Afrexim today, signed financing facilities totalling US$600 million with the Heirs Holdings Group, a pan-African proprietary investment holding company. December 12, 2018 In "News" We drive investments that can benefit Africa for the long-term February 28, 2017 In "Interview"