The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB,  Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, Friday, condemned the arrest of seventy, (70) Biafrans in Imo state. In a statement he personally signed but sent by Emma Powerful, IPOB’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Kanu said he has written to United Kingdom and United States respectively, warning that a peaceful agitation should not be construed as weakness. He advised the Governor of Imo state, Hope Uzodinma and the states commissioner for police, Isaac Olutayo Akinmode to release the arrested Biafrans. His words:  We wish to draw the attention of the creator of Nigeria, the Almighty Great Britain through the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, UK in Nigeria, the US State Department through U.S. Mission Nigeria, to the deliberate and orchestrated provocations/actions of the government against peaceful Biafrans. “Without provocation and having not committed any crime known to law, a group of Biafrans numbering over 70 were arrested, humiliated and detained by Isaac Olutayo Akinmoyede, Police Commissioner in Imo State. “Despite the daily carnage and mayhem in Imo State by herdsmen, no one has been arrested and detained in the police custody. “Police are yet to arrest or parade suspects involved in the killings and destruction of farmlands in the State. “This same police had the temerity to detain innocent people going about their business because they are Biafrans. “Is the state governor and commissioner for police saying that Biafrans can be arrested at will even when no crime has been committed but herdsmen are free to  roam and kill at will. This level of provocation is unacceptable. If and when Biafran people decide to take matters into their own hands, let it be on record that the duo caused it. Peaceful agitation should not be construed as weakness.” Vanguard Leader of Independent People of Biafra, IPoB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has hailed those he described as fallen heroes, saying the actualisation of Biafra Republic is certain. May 31, 2020 In "News" The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, Tuesday said that it was the ill treatment being meted by successive government, particularly the present, Mohammadu Buhari led All Progressive Congress, APC, administration that aggravated the situation that worsened the agitation for the Sovereign State of Biafra,… September 10, 2019 In "News" ENUGU—THE Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, on weekend condemned the Federal Government for allegedly invading the country home of their leader, Nnamdi Kanu again through security agencies that have been parading Afaraukwu Village Square, Umuahia, Abia State. September 10, 2018 In "News"