Gov. Godwin Obasekiof Edo and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Sept. 19 governorship election has appealed to supporters of the party to re-elect the present administration for continuity of its people-oriented programmes Obaseki made the appeal at Ogwa, ward 1, in Esan West Local Government Area, when the PDP Edo governorship campaign council held its rally. He said:“To whom much is given, much is expected. I am aware of your request in this community which include more empowerment, and more appointments. “I am ready to do my part. So vote for me I work for you. This election is important, help me to help you.” Earlier, Chairman of the PDP state campaign council, Chief Dan Orbih, urged the party’s supporters to come out en masse on Sept. 19 to re-elect its candidate. Orbih noted that a vote for Obaseki was a vote for progress. “This election is very important. On election day don’t say let me go to the farm first or any other place before going to your polling units to vote. “Go straight to your polling units and vote for our governor, because this election is not about him, but about all of us,” Orbih said. Vanguard News Nigeria By Gabriel Enogholase LEADERS of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have stunned voters in Igueben Local Government Area of the State with the achievements of its party Candidate for the September 19, 2020 Governorship election in Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki in the past four years in Edo Senatorial district… August 20, 2020 In "Edo Decides" SEVERAL persons were, yesterday, injured as supporters of the two main political parties in the country, All Progressives Congress, APC, and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, clashed near the palace of the Oba of Benin when PDP governors, led by the Chairman of the PDP Campaign Council, Governor Nyesom Wike,… July 26, 2020 In "News" Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his associates in Edo All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains must have been unhappy about the drama in the ruling party at the federal level that terminated his leadership. July 5, 2020 In "News"