The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) has appealed to the management of Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, to help facilitate clinical duty and hazard allowances for honourary consultants in the hospital. Dr Adetunji Adenekan, the NMA Chairman in Lagos State, made the appeal on Friday in Lagos, when the NMA Executives visited the Chief Medical Director of LASUTH, Prof. Adetokunbo Fabamwo. Adenekan, in a statement by Mrs Oluwaseyi Adewale, Head, Public Affairs Department, LASUTH, said that the honourary consultants were omitted in the payment of hazard allowance made by the Lagos State Government. He lauded Fabamwo for his open door policy, response to the welfare of doctors, appointment of more honourary consultants and adequate provision of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Adenekan also commended the hospital’s management for its assistance to the state government in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Responding, Fabamwo assured the NMA leaders that names of the honourary consultants affected had been sent to the Permanent Secretary, state Ministry of Health, adding that their hazard allowances would be duly paid. He said that the hospital was constantly making effort on provision of PPE for its frontline health workers toward ensuring their safety from infections. The chief medical director added that the hospital had organised a monthly webinar for health workers to sensitise them about the COVID-19 pandemic. Fabamwo, expressing his joy for receiving the new NMA executives, commended them for always being a saving grace for health workers whenever their rights were trampled upon. Vanguard By Chioma Obinna The Lagos State Branch of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, has appealed to the Lagos State government to take the advantage of the two weeks extension of the strike notice issued by members of the Medical Guild, an umbrella body of medical doctors under the employ of… June 30, 2020 In "Health" The Lagos State branch of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, weekend elected new executive officers with Dr Saliu Oseni, a consultant general surgeon at the Ikorudu General Hospital emerging as the Chairman to steer the ship of the organisation for the next two years. July 24, 2018 In "Health" RIPPLE effects of the indefinite strike called by Lagos doctors under the auspices of Medical Guild took its toll on healthcare institutions in the state, yesterday, as several cases of deaths were allegedly recorded following paralysis of medical and clinical services even as patronage from patients dipped significantly. April 26, 2012 In "News"