Lorenzo Insigne will start for Napoli in Saturday’s Champions League clash with Barcelona after recovering from a thigh injury in time to make Gennaro Gattuso’s starting line-up at the Camp Nou. Italy forward Insigne looked a doubt for the second leg of the last 16 tie, in which the two sides are locked at 1-1, after picking up the knock during Napoli’s final match of the Serie A season against Lazio a week ago. However, he takes the field in Napoli’s front three alongside Dries Mertens and Jose Callejon. Barca coach Quique Setien meanwhile plumped for a predictable line-up thanks to injuries and suspensions that left him thin in midfield. The Spanish coach is without the not-yet match fit Ousmane Dembele and Sergio Busquets and Artur Vidal, who are both suspended. Meanwhile Juventus-bound Arthur is not in the squad following a row with the club. That means that Sergi Roberto, Ivan Rakitic and Frenkie de Jong line up in a three-man midfield behind Lionel Messi, Luis Suarez and Antoine Griezmann. Teams: Barcelona (ESP) 4-3-3 Marc-Andre Ter Stegen; Nelson Semedo, Gerard Pique, Clement Lenglet, Jordi Alba; Sergi Roberto, Ivan Rakitic, Frenkie de Jong; Lionel Messi, Luis Suarez, Antoine Griezmann Coach: Quique Setien (ESP) Napoli (ITA) 4-3-3 David Ospina; Giovanni Di Lorenzo, Kostas Manolas, Kalidou Koulibaly, Mario Rui; Fabian Ruiz, Diego Demme, Piotr Zielinski; Jose Callejon, Dries Mertens, Lorenzo Insigne Coach: Gennaro Gattuso (ITA) Referee: Cuneyt Cakir (TUR) VANGUARD Potech Ltd, an emerging I.T solution provider has advised Nigerians to start a career in blogging while stressing that one doesn’t need to spend plenty money before taking advantage of the new trend which is fast rendering physical shops and trading inactive. December 7, 2015 In "News" By bringing together public- and private-sector support for digital trade, the Global Fund for Ecommerce could help developing country entrepreneurs go global. April 14, 2016 In "innovation by General Electric" SKYE Bank Plc said it will organise webinar 2.0 for Skye Pearl subscribers following the success of its webinar 1.0 with the theme “Tips to survive a challenging economy” which attracted almost 10,000 viewers. May 1, 2017 In "Business"