Rafael van der Vaart hopes Harry Kane remains at Tottenham, allowing the England international to continue working with a “great coach” in Jose Mourinho. The striker returned from a hamstring injury suffered at the start of 2020 to help Spurs finish in sixth place in the Premier League, securing the north London club a spot in next season’s Europa League as a result. Kane, 27, scored five goals in his final three outings to finish the campaign with 24 in all competitions, though he had sparked speculation over his future earlier in the year when admitting he would not stay at his boyhood club “for the sake of it”. However, Van der Vaart – who spent two years with Spurs – believes Kane does not have to leave in his pursuit to win trophies. “I really hope that he’s going to stay,” Van der Vaart – an ambassador for the UEFA Europa League Trophy Tour – told Stats Perform News. “I hope he’s going to stay. Spurs have a great coach. “It’s a club that want to be a championship winner, and the Champions League. They can also pay the money. “For me, the best thing is for Harry to stay.” Fotmob Vanguard Harry Kane hopes to build a "strong relationship" with new Tottenham head coach Jose Mourinho. The England captain's double in Tottenham's 4-2 win over Olympiakos on Tuesday helped book a Champions League last-16 place for Mourinho's new side. Kane says he is keen to work with the former Chelsea and… November 28, 2019 In "Sports" Sergio Ramos is the best defender in the world and can keep on playing until he is 40, according to former Real Madrid team-mate Rafael van der Vaart. Ramos was very influential in helping Madrid end Barcelona's run of success in LaLiga, scoring 11 goals as Zinedine Zidane's squad were crowned… August 5, 2020 In "News" Korean star Son Heung-min's season could well be over said Tottenham Hotspur manager Jose Mourinho on Tuesday after the club said the player had fractured his right arm. The 27-year-old South Korean international forward suffered the injury in the 3-2 Premier League victory over Aston Villa -- in which he… February 18, 2020 In "Sports"