We are after their ‘receivers’ ― PPRO At least five persons including two teenagers are currently cooling their heels at the Headquarters of the Cross River State Police Command for vandalising water installation including meters owned by the State Water Board. In a press statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, DSP Irene Ugbo, made available to Vanguard on Saturday, one of the suspects, was caught red-handed in the act while trying to vandalise a water meter at Diamond Hill, Calabar Municipal LGA. According to Ugbo following incessant vandalisation as well as stealing of water board meters leading to economic loss from unmetered water usage by the public from Cross River Water Board, the Operatives Special Anti Robbery Squad apprehended 5 persons. She said: After swinging into action, Operatives of Anti Robbery Squad arrested, Emmanuel Effiong red-handed while carrying out the act at Diamond Hill at about 2:45 pm on Saturday and the water meter recovered from him. “Upon interrogation, he made a confession that led to the arrest of four others, two at Ikot Ishie and Mobil all in Calabar Municipal LGA. “We are after their receivers, and we will surely get to the root of the matter because there has been several report and complaint of vandalism of water installations like meters amongst others and anyone apprehended will be duly prosecuted accordingly,” she stated. Vanguard learned that the suspects, Emmanuel Effiong Nyong, 21, David Ubong Okon, 18, Edidiong Akpan Essien 25, Peter Monday Alfred, 19, Eteka Etim Offiong, 20, will be charged to court immediately investigations were concluded as no suspect will be kept longer than the stipulated time by law in police custody. Vanguard ...They paid 22million ransom for their release - Source ...We are not aware of any ransom - PPRO By Ike Uchechukwu - Calabar The Cross River State Police Command on Sunday confirmed the release of four Chinese Nationals kidnapped from premises of Danatrite Construction Company in Oban, Akampka LGA of… August 16, 2020 In "News" The Cross River Police Command have arrested 11 persons during an initiation into a cult on Bishop Moynag Avenue, State Housing, Calabar. The command Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Irene Ugbo, said in a statement in Calabar on Sunday that the suspects were nine men and two women. He said… August 16, 2020 In "Metro" CALABAR- THE  three female siblings, aged 13, five and three years respectively, whose HIV-positive grandmother branded as witches at a community in Akamkpa Local Government Area, Cross River State, have divulged how their grandma allegedly conspired with some persons to whip them with red-hot machete to coerce them to confess… February 20, 2018 In "Crime Guard"