Amber BRT, an initiative to ease commuting in Lagos, has been launched by a private company, Amber Energy Drinks Ltd., as part of their corporate social responsibility. Officials of the company said in a statement that the free bus ride initiative, which coincides with the launch of their Amber Energy Drinks, was in recognition of the fact that commuting in Lagos State could be “hellish and sometimes nightmarish for residents with the ever-increasing population on a daily basis.” The statement said Amber Energy drink has put in place a well-coordinated plan with the respective transport authorities, such that is required by “members of the public is to buy a can of the drink at BRT bus terminals or yellow buses (Danfo) garages and parks in the city and get a BRT ticket for free. “The can, as the automatic passport, gives the commuter free entrance into the BRT buses or the conventional popular Lagos yellow buses, depending on destination, for a smooth relief and jolly ride between 4p.m. and 6p.m., Mondays to Friday every week at work close.” According to the statement, “selected bus terminals that have become the epicentre of Amber Energy drink free bus ride with fanfare are; Leventis, CMS, Oyingbo, Fadeyi, Maryland, and Ojota. This runs Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays for BRT buses. Others are Oshodi, Obalende, Marina, Ojuelegba and CMS (runs Wednesdays and Fridays) for the conventional Lagos yellow buses. It noted that “at these locations and on those days, the sight to behold is Amber Energy drink brand ambassadors clad in the branded T-shirts on black pants, interacting and sharing the tickets to consumers for a rewarding and enriching Amber experience. “Upon buying a can of the energy drink, commuters take their seats inside the BRT buses as they savour the unique taste of the refreshing black, slim, sleek energy drink with natural caffeine and essential vitamins. It is not only filling, nourishing and stimulating but pleasantly fun and appealing.” General Manager of Amber Energy Drink Ltd, Ms. Lola Adedeji, said: “For us at Amber Energy Drinks Ltd, we have done everything possible, even what other companies cannot do, to satisfy and meet our consumers’ needs and demands. “We have taken our time not just to study the market, but also who our consumers are and what they will need, and have decided that at every step on the way, Amber will meet the needs of its consumers. “So, it is so much fun and many wonders are still coming from the Amber Energy world.” VANGUARD AMBER Energy Drink Ltd has added flavour to public transportation in Lagos as it partners BRT to make commuting in Lagos buses more rewarding. The arrangement which has been described as a new dimension in public transportation in Lagos following the introduction of free rides for commuters in various locations… July 31, 2020 In "News" Over 500,000 daily commuters on the Lagos Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system can now board buses using a contact-less card payment system. April 7, 2018 In "Business" THE Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority LAMATA, in collaboration with the operator of Bus Rapid Transit BRT, has launched 50 new buses to beef up the existing fleet along Mile 12 to CMS route, in its bid to improve commuting and service delivery along the corridor. October 1, 2013 In "Metro"