City King, the rising star from the stables of Erokam Empire, a top-notch South Eastern-based record label with two Artistes on its platform is set to release an EP later this year, titled “Dance of Konga”. Like the tale of most successful Eastern acts today such as Flavour, Phyno, Run town, Slow Dogg and the rest, City King emerged straight out of the hood, Abakpa to be precise in the Coal City. Not perturbed by his founding background, City as he is fondly called by his fans never gave up his dream of becoming a celebrated music star. Hawking within the streets of Abakpa in the day time, and striving to hit 16 bars in the night time, fate found him in 2018 after he was introduced to the CEO of Erokam Empire, Prince Ekene Okam. City King is a young multi-talented artiste who continually springs up surprises as he works with various Producers. Born in Anambra in Mid 90s to a family of six, City King believes his music will touch many lives and also change the negative perception regarding the lifestyle of musicians. His debut track ‘Come Jolly’ (Mmanya go dey) he says is inspired by the need for people to celebrate despite the situation they find themselves. Produced and Mastered by Nameless Productions in Erokam Studios, the song will pierce your heart, pump your adrenaline and certainly get you up your feet. VANGUARD Budding star of Afro-music, a genre previously unknown to music fans in the United States, is a fast-rising Nigerian songwriter, a record producer known as Akeju. Akeju’s name is fast evolving into a household item in New York City, the city that never sleeps. He is so popular and influential,… October 30, 2019 In "Entertainment" 2018 was unarguably an amazing year for the Nigerian music industry. With the release of credible hit songs from 2Baba, Davido, Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, Falz, Simi, Adekunle Gold, Kizz Daniel, Duncan Mighty, Yemi Alade, Victor AD, Barry Jhay, Erriga, Teniola, Flavour, Reekado Banks, Skibi, Mayorkun, Dremo, Olamide, Chinko Ekun, Zlatan… January 12, 2019 In "Music" The Nigerian entertainment industry enjoyed good music from greenhorns and big shots in the music making craft in 2017. January 6, 2018 In "Music"