US officials on Thursday proposed toughening rules for Chinese companies listed on American stock exchanges as recent scandals have prompted concerns about the reliability of some of the firms’ documents. The companies’ auditors would have to share their work papers with American regulators under the proposal from a working group led by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. Firms already on Wall Street would have until 2022 to comply or lose their listing. “The United States is the premier jurisdiction in the world for raising capital, and we will not compromise on the core principles that underpin investor confidence in our capital markets,” said a Treasury Department statement. The group, which includes Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell, also proposed strengthening risk disclosures to investors about companies or funds from countries that do not provide “sufficient” access to documents. The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which oversees US equity markets, would be tasked with implementing the recommendations. Several Wall Street-listed Chinese companies have been involved in scandals in recent months, including coffeehouse chain Luckin Coffee. The Starbucks rival revealed in April that one of its executives was accused of faking sales figures. The recommendations come as tensions spike between the world’s top two economies, with a struggle over the video sharing platform TikTok being the latest flashpoint. However, US media have reported that negotiators from the two nations are due to talk August 15 about the partial trade deal inked in January. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. US President Donald Trump on Friday ordered a probe into the actions of Chinese companies listed on American financial markets as tensions flared anew between the world's two biggest economies. The announcement followed Beijing's move to implement a new security law on semi-autonomous Hong Kong that critics say would stifle… May 29, 2020 In "Foreign" China said on Tuesday it was impossible to hold trade talks with the United States while Washington is imposing tariffs that are like “holding a knife to someone’s throat”. September 25, 2018 In "News" In July 2010, the United States Congress carried out a robust reform of the financial industry with the passage of Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) The act is geared towards enhancing transparency and accountability in the U.S. financial system. May 14, 2013 In "Energy"