PRESIDENT of the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria, CIoTA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, has restated the institute’s commitment to safety of all modes of transportation in the country, especially those operating within the port environment. Jamoh stated this on Tuesday in Lagos while reacting to a recent incident where a container fell from a truck and landed on a commercial vehicle, killing the occupants, including two employees of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, FAAN. The CIoTA president, who is also Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, had in a separate telephone conversation with the parents of the deceased conveyed the institute’s condolences. He promised that the association would intensify its advisory role on transportation matters to rid the sector of unsafe practices and ensure smooth and safe movement. He said: “I spoke with both parents (Mrs. Ajoku and Mr. Nnaekpe) of the two youthful FAAN employees whose lives were sadly terminated by the fallen container while in a bus on their way from work. As your president, I extended our collective heartfelt sympathies to them in separate phone conversations. “While comforting them, I also assured them that CIoTA will not only be lending a voice to this matter but will play its full leadership role of advocating for transportation safety on our roads.” He disclosed that CIoTA had started engaging stakeholders in the industry in a bid to find a lasting solution to the issue of safety, particularly with regard to proper latching of containers onto articulated vehicles, a major challenge that has faced transportation within the port environment in recent times. Vanguard MINISTER of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi; Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika; Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, and Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemi Saraki, as well as commissioners for transport in the 36 states of the federation are set to  meet with other transport sector stakeholders next week to… November 27, 2019 In "Business" Following the reported approval of Bashir Jamoh as Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA by President Muhammadu Buhari, the ruling All Progressives Congress APC has said his appointment was based on competence and not nepotism as being alleged in some quarters. March 6, 2020 In "News" FOLLOWING the recent enactment of the Act establishing the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria, CIOTA, by the Federal Government, the executive council of the institute has articulated a strategic road map for its development and growth. July 12, 2019 In "Motoring"