BENIN CITY – A coalition of various trade unions and artisans in Edo State Monday stormed the Edo State Government House to give their support to the second term bid of Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Comrade Philip Shaibu ahead of the September 19th governorship election. They said their support was because of the progress the administration has achieved in the state in the last three and a half years and that the governor reduced the cost of shops when they cried out on the high amount they were paying. Chairman of the artisans, Collins Ohis said “these are the coalition of traders and artisans in Edo state. As you see them they are over 37 associations represented today by their chairmen each. Your Excellency, we thank you for the peace and progress the traders enjoy, and we here promise you that we will work with you to achieve your reelection bid.” On his part, the President of the traders and the leader of the coalition Pa G.O Ojo expressed gratitude to the Edo State Government for their commitment to humanity. His words “You have created an enabling environment for businesses to thrive in the state. The delay of the host community is what is dragging the construction of the standard market as pleaded by the traders association because the government has granted C of O already.” He maintained that “Since the inception of Governor Obaseki’s administration, the traders have enjoyed smooth running in their businesses as abgeros no longer harass them like they do before, hence the decision to work with the governor. “We are not politicians, but we appreciate good leadership and that is why we are here today to say wherever you are, we will go,” they insisted. This group you are seeing today is the engine room of voters in Edo South.” Vanguard News Nigeria ...Obaseki, Shaibu will win – aide By Dirisu Yakubu & Ozioruva Aliu - Abuja Governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, have thrown their weight behind their newest colleague, Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, and vowed to support his re-election on September 19. They spoke on… July 3, 2020 In "Politics" Edo State Deputy Governor and running mate of Governor Godwin Obaseki in the state’s forthcoming gubernatorial election, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu, addressing supporters at a rally in Jattu, Etsako West Local Government Area (LGA). Says no amount of kneeling stunt will save Oshiomhole from defeat, humiliation The Edo State… July 30, 2020 In "Politics" …as gov presents scorecard Leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from the 18 Local Government Areas of Edo State, have unanimously adopted Governor Godwin Obaseki, as the party’s flagbearer for the 2020 gubernatorial election in the state. The leaders adopted the governor during an enlarged meeting with the governor… November 5, 2019 In "News"