To ensure synergy and effective ministry supervision, President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the transfer of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy. A statement by the Spokesperson of the Minister, Mrs. Uwa Suleiman said the approval for the transfer was based on Mr President’s consideration for the critical role of NIMC towards the realisation of the objectives of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy for a Digital Nigeria (NDEPS). It said also said that the President directives for NIMC to be under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy is an illustration of Mr President’s vote of confidence on Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami), the Minister, based on an unprecedented achievement he has recorded within a short time in office. It will be recalled that Dr. Pantami has, within his first year in office, amongst others, resolved the ICT sector’s decade-long dilemma of Right of Way charges and also able to secure Mr President’s approval for the provision of security as well as designation of Telecommunications Infrastructure as Critical National Infrastructure; regularization of improperly registered SIM cards and deactivation of unregistered ones; the deployment of over 250 digital projects across the country under his policies and supervision as well as built the capacity of over 36,000 Nigerians. The NIMC is mandated to create, manage, maintain and operate the National Identity Database established by the NIMC Act, 2007. In an effort to realise this, the Commission has so far registered around 41 million eligible enrollees for the National Identity Number (NIN). The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) on the other hand has details of over 191 million mobile subscribers. Similarly, the National Information Technology Development Agency has recorded huge successes in the development and implementation of the Nigeria Data Protection Regulation (NDPR), the country’s first codified data protection regulation. The Agency has also reached an advanced stage on the implementation of the National Public Key Infrastructure (NPKI), while Galaxy Backbone Limited (GBB) also provides services to Government Agencies – Infrastructure-as-a-Service, Platform-as-a-Service and Software-as-a-Service. The need therefore for NIMC, NCC, NITDA and GBB to work closely together under the supervision of one Ministry towards harnessing what has already been achieved cannot be overemphasized. The NIN, considered as social security as well as civil number, is very important for economic planning and social intervention. With Federal Government’s digitalization initiatives in line with the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy, access to services and interventions will require it. The Minister, therefore, urged all eligible individuals to enrol as soon as possible, assuring all citizens as well as residents that appropriate measures will be put in place to ensure that opportunities for enrolment are provided to all. Vanguard News Nigeria Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, said since 2012, the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) had enrolled “a total number of 41 million Nigerians and issued each person with a unique identifier known as the National Identification Number (NIN), which serves as a universal proof of… June 5, 2020 In "News" The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa  Pantami, has inaugurated six completed projects across the country under the digital economy sector. July 23, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has inaugurated the Steering Committee for the Nigeria Digital Identity for Development Ecosystem Project to fast-track the implementation of the Strategic Roadmap for accelerating digital identity development for Nigeria. Inaugurating the Committee, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, who also doubles as… June 6, 2020 In "News"