The Department of State Services, DSS, Friday described as fake news, the allegation made by a former Deputy Governor of Central Bank, CBN, Dr Obadiah Mailafia, wherein he said that a certain Northern Governor is a commander of Boko Haram terrorist organization. The DSS, which made the claim in a statement signed by its Spokesman, Dr. Peter Afunanya, obtained by  Vanguard, said it was disappointed that the eminent economist with unhindered access to many government platforms to share his concerns and security information opted to cross the line of decorum expected of such persons. Read the statement below: “Mailafiya, as a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and currently, a Directing Staff at Nigeria’s foremost Policy Research Institute, the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, has unhindered access to government platforms. It is expected that he should be conversant with official information management protocols. “But regrettably, he chose to cross the lines of decorum and conduct expected of a personality of his status. It is disappointing that he never took advantage of these to reach any of the security or related agencies to share the so called information at his disposal. This, he has agreed to be a grievous error on his part. It, however, suggests his mischief and determination to use the fake news he spewed to incite the people under his control. “It is even more condemnable that Mailafiya, who had profusely apologized during his visit to the Service’s Plateau State Command for his ignoble statement, would, afterwards, announce to the world that he stood by his misguided eruption. “Similarly, the Service also wishes to warn others, who in the guise of political mobilization and supposed pursuit of group interests, engage in hostile and subversive activities, to desist forthwith from advancing their inimical and parochial causes. “The Service will not stand idly and watch disgruntled and aggrieved elements take laws into their hands and cause mayhem in the polity. “In line with its mandate of detecting and preventing threats and crimes against the internal security of Nigeria, the Service hereby reiterates its previous warning that it will henceforth not condone unruly conducts of persons and groups that ought to know better. “In this regard, it will not hesitate to, within the confines of the law, decisively deal with such persons and/or groups, no matter how highly placed, that may wish to test its resolve. It will, nonetheless, continue to support participatory democracy in the country and therefore urges all players to abide by the rules of the game. “On the other hand, the Service implores law abiding citizens to go about their normal businesses without fear. It assures them of protection and pledges to strengthen existing measures designed to achieve this objective,” the secret service said. Vanguard The Department of State Services has slammed a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Dr Mailafiya, over his comments on the ongoing Southern Kaduna skirmishes, saying he betrayed both his exalted office and personality. August 14, 2020 In "News" Former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Dr. Obadiah Mailafia, who was invited by the Department of State Services, DSS, for questioning over some allegations he made on the security situation in the country, has been released after hours of grilling. August 12, 2020 In "News" FOLLOWING the allegation that a serving northern governor is a commander of Boko Haram, the Northern Governors’ Forum has called for a thorough investigation as such allegation is too weighty to be ignored. August 13, 2020 In "News"