President Muhammadu Buhari has directed state governments and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to enforce the use of face masks in public places across the country. The Chairman, Presidential Task force on COVID-19, Mr Boss Mustapha, made this known at the daily briefing on Thursday in Abuja. Mustapha, while reviewing the activities of the committee, said the president also approved that the current phase of the National Response to COVID-19 should be maintained for another four weeks, but with some modifications. “President Buhari also asked the PTF to partner with states and local governments to improve community sensitisation and engagement to step up response to the COVID-19 response. “He also encouraged state governments to collaborate with local government authorities to intensify necessary measures such as contact tracing, grassroots mobilisation and risk communication. “He also ordered that collaboration with other mandate groups at federal/state levels to harmonise the country’s COVID-19 response be strenghtened on the short, medium and long-term basis,” he said. Mustapha warned against stigmatisation and skepticism among Nigerians in the fight against COVID-19. “I wish to remind all Nigerians that this fight is for every one; everyone must take responsibility. “Disbelief and skepticism will further complicate our situation; we should not stigmatise anyone infected. Our communities should own the response and educate our citizens,” he said. Vanguard By David Royal The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Monday confirmed 64 new cases of COVID-19 outbreak in the country, bringing the total number of infections in Nigeria to 1337. The centre said no deaths were recorded in Nigeria in the last 24 hours and no new state… April 28, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday relaxed the COVID-19 induced lockdown in Lagos, Ogun, and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) with effect from May 4. The President, who gave the directive in a nationwide broadcast on the COVID-19 situation in the country, also announced a two-week total lockdown of Kano State.… April 27, 2020 In "News" By Victor Young National Union of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria, NUTGTWN, has called on the Federal Government to make wearing of facemasks compulsory, as part of the measures to contain COVID-19 pandemic. President of the union, John Adaji, in a statement, commended plans by Lagos State government… April 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"