The cat and mouse game between Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe and Wale Babalakin blew open last February when Babalakin petitioned the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, accusing the VC of running a one-man show in the preparations for the convocation ceremonies of the school. The minister subsequently ordered the National Universities Commission, NUC, to ask the VC to suspend the graduation ceremony. The local ASUU condemned Babalakin’s action and declared him an unwanted visitor on campus at a Congress it held. Last June, the Council attempted to hold a meeting on campus but had to cancel it because ASUU also fixed a Congress for the same venue. However, four senior professors in the school, including Professor Lai Olurode, decried the stance of ASUU, saying the Council ought to be allowed to sit on campus. But ASUU said it was only a duly held Congress that could change the tag of unwanted visitor put on Babalakin and that that had not happened. It was because of the inability to hold its meetings in Lagos that prompted the Council to relocate to Abuja. Though the National President of ASUU, Prof Biodun Ogunyemi, said the national leadership of the union was wading into the matter, Wednesday’s development was an indication that such has not yielded results. Vanguard By Adesina Wahab, Joseph Erunke, Elizabeth Osayande and Mary Obaebor The lingering face-off between the Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos, UNILAG, Professor Toyin Ogundipe and the Chairman, Governing Council of the institution, Dr Wale Babalakin, SAN, came to a head-on Wednesday as the Council announced the removal from office of the… August 12, 2020 In "Education" The lingering faceoff between the Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Toyin Ogundipe and the Chairman, Governing Council of the institution, Dr  Wale Babalakin, SAN, came to a head on Wednesday as the Council announced the removal from office of the VC after a meeting held in Abuja. August 12, 2020 In "Education" By Adesina Wahab The emergency Congress of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, the University of Lagos, UNILAG Branch and the meeting of the Governing Council of the institution earlier scheduled for Wednesday have been postponed, averting a possible clash between the two groups. The Council fixed its meeting… July 15, 2020 In "Education"