The ruling All Progressives Congress APC on Friday boasted of the success of its ongoing reconciliation efforts, saying its political bigwigs who left would soon return to its fold. Chairman, Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the APC, Gov. Mai Mala Buni of Yobe state disclosed this while inaugurating a reconciliation committee for Ogun and Imo states. Saturday Vanguard recalls that a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara had recently returned to the APC while the Buni-led committee has been able to resolve the lingering crisis in the Cross River State chapter of the party. He recalled that the caretaker committee had shortly after its inauguration initiated some peace building and reconciliation mechanisms, to give every member a sense of fairness and belonging. He said, “I am proud to say that, with the support enjoyed from members of the party, the committee has recorded remarkable head-ways, reclaiming some distinguished and very valuable members with thousands of their supporters back to our fold. “I am equally fulfilled that our exploits in reconciling our members in Edo and Ondo states has strengthened the party and further expanded our chances with assurances of winning the governorship elections in the two states with land slide victories. “Let me also add that, the on-going reconciliatory initiatives of the All Progressives Congress, will soon shock Nigeria’s political space with massive return of former members who felt aggrieved and unwillingly, went to other political parties. ‘Therefore, it is in the spirit of the ongoing reconciliation that the chairmen and members of the Imo and Ogun states reconciliation committees were carefully selected to reconcile aggrieved members and groups within the party”, he stated. Buni who named his Jigawa counterpart, Alh. Mohammed Abubakar Badaru as Chairman, listed other members of the committee to include Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti state, Gov. Simon Bako Along (Plateau), Gov. Audu Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa) and Gov. Muhammed Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe state. Vanguard The ruling All Progressives Congress APC on Friday boasted of the successes of its ongoing reconciliation efforts, saying it was set to send shockwaves across the political atmosphere with the expected return of political bigwigs back into its fold. August 21, 2020 In "Politics" As Buni, members meet Tinubu in Lagos By Olasunkanmi Akoni National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has expressed confidence and sincere support for the APC's Caretaker Committee, led by its Chairman, Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni. Tinubu made the remarks on Thursday,  after… July 3, 2020 In "Politics" The All Progressives Congress (APC) has attributed the return of Sen. Barnabas Gemade and the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, to the successful reconciliation efforts of the APC Caretaker Committee led by Gov. Mai Mala Buni of Yobe. August 2, 2020 In "News"