CHAIRMAN, Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Mai Malla Buni on Friday said that President Muhammadu Buhari has endorsed the governorship candidate of the party in the September 19 elections, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Buni, who stated this while briefing State House correspondents after presenting the APC candidate to the President said that Buhari gave his blessings to the candidate. Pastor Ize-Iyamu at the briefing debunked the allegation that 14 members-elect of the Edo State House of Assembly sat in his house on Thursday to impeach the Speaker of the House and elect a new one. He said: “Let me debunk the statement that 17 members of the State House of Assembly sat in my sitting room, it is not true.” He also said that there was no truth in the insinuations that President Buhari did not want to see him, alleging that it was a falsehood being spread by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. Also speaking, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State described his Edo State counterpart and candidate of the PDP in the September elections, Godwin Obaseki, as a liability to the PDP. “I can assure you that Governor Obaseki is a liability to the PDP. I can assure you that we are contesting against a governor who failed most woefully.” Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has described his Edo State counterpart and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the forthcoming September election, Godwin Obaseki, as a liability to the PDP. Ganduje made the remark about Obaseki after a meeting with the Nigerian… August 7, 2020 In "Politics" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA - THE National Executive Committee, NEC, of All Progressives Congress, APC, has ratified the candidacy of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu as the party's candidate in the September governorship election. READ ALSO: I will be governor of the whole Edo ― Ize-Iyamu The NEC also gave the Mai Malla… June 25, 2020 In "News" Candidate of All Progressives Congress, APC, in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has received the blessings of the Enigies in Benin kingdom. July 27, 2020 In "News"