The lawmaker representing Akoko-Edo II constituency in the Edo House of Assembly, Mr Emmanuel Agbaje, has pledged his support for Mr Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the APC candidate in the Sept. 19 governorship election in the state. Agbaje made the declaration at a meeting with members of his constituency on Sunday in Igarra, Akoko-Edo Local Government area of Edo. He said that his decision was based on his inability to meet his political obligations to his constituents under the present administration of Gov. Godwin Obaseki. Recall that Agbaje was the second lawmaker out of the 10, who had been sitting since the controversial inauguration of the assembly in July 2019 to publicly declare their support for Ize-Iyamu. Agbaje said that the current system, as being operated by the Obaseki-led government, did not give room for any form of development in their (lawmakers’) constituencies.
According to him, “The only time I can remember that I was a true house of assembly member was the first one year and five months, and that was when Mr Adams Oshiomhole was governor. “Within that period, Oshiomhole approved our constituency projects. “I sited one in ward one; I sited the second one in ward eight Enwan Mixed Grammar School and another one in Ososo Secondary School; they are all there uncompleted. He said that Oshiomhole mobilised the contractors with 50 percent of the value of the contracts, adding, however, that the job had remained where it was till today. “For the past four years now, we have been begging for those jobs to be completed, even when we have not gotten new ones. Is that fair?  “Today, I am pained because I have wasted years in the house of assembly without being able to deliver on my campaign promises to my constituents. “We were unable to meet the slightest of the projections we promised our people, because we have a system that doesn’t care about anybody. “Here, we have an opportunity and this is very simple. It is either we continue like this but I don’t want to end my eight years like this. “The opportunity is that we get a change; a new system that will now bring out better governance that will benefit all of us. So the choice is for our people and I know that we are not foolish. “They say they did roads in Akoko-Edo and the World Bank did roads for us. “We are happy even though the standard of those roads are nothing to write home about, because they are almost being washed away. “I want to appeal to all of us, as I will not stick my neck into projecting this same system that has tied everybody’s hands,” he said. Vanguard By Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City The lawmaker representing Akoko-Edo II constituency, Hon Emmanuel Agbaje has pledged his support for the election of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress, APC in the September 19th governorship election citing his inability to meet his political obligations to his constituents under… August 2, 2020 In "Politics" By Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City The campaign between supporters of Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu took a violent dimension as two persons identified as Oguma Ojo and Friday Yaya who are supporters of Ize-Iyamu were shot on Friday night by one… August 1, 2020 In "News" The member representing Akoko-Edo Constituency 11 at the Edo State House of Assembly, Hon. Emmanuel Agbaje, has lauded his constituents for their continuous support for the government of  Godwin Obaseki. August 19, 2018 In "News"