In a bid to cushion the economic effects occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, a fast growing Nigerian Company, Evergreen Promotions Limited, has launched a Social Enterprise Startup – Easyblurb Ng. In a communiqué issued yester by the Chief Operating Officer of Easyblurb Nigeria, Abiola Adebajo, it was revealed that the scheme was designed to give the opportunity of making extra income to as many young Nigerians. Adebajo, however, disclosed that the scheme makes possible up to N30,000 monthly side income for over 20,000 young Nigerians who will post sponsored adverts on their WhatsApp status, daily. “Are you an active WhatsApp user and you get up to 100 views averagely? Come with me. Let me show you how you can make up to 30, 000 monthly income posting sponsored ads on your WhatsApp status”. EasyBlurb is a Direct-To-Customer Advertising platform with the primary aim of helping large companies, SMEs, and MSMEs across diverse sectors in Nigeria, to boost their sales and visibility, while empowering thousands of young Nigerians to generate side income. “The Vision is to be the most trusted, affordable, and accessible digital advertising platform across all business sectors in the nation, exploring the famous day-to-day social media platform in Nigeria, WhatsApp. “According to The Global State of Digital 2019 report, at least 85% of Nigeria’s 24million active social media users are on WhatsApp, making it the most used social media platform in Nigeria. “WhatsApp is immensely effective, as adverts are placed directly within the convenient reach of the target audience, with a compelling ‘call to action’, generating more impressions and conversions within a short period. The Easyblurb team have a good knowledge of the terrain and the value chain in the digital advertising industry, coupled with exclusively acquired I.T. solutions.
“Companies who subscribe to Easyblurb ad products are most likely to get up to 300 percent increase in sales revenue and explosive visibility within a month or two. “The company’s rack record features clients such as Cielo City, Virtual Teachers Connect Nig., Evergreen Apparels, Ofadaboy, Pettycash, Purple Training and Consulting, Emerge Hub, Paymyrent, The Vote Right Network Nigeria, and more,” he said. Further explaining how interested youths can earn a monthly stipend of N30,000, Adebajo said, “While poverty and social vices by young Nigerians on the internet seem to be the order of the day, Easyblurb through its platform hopes to change the narrative.
“EasyBlurb as a social enterprise creates income generation opportunities for young Nigerians who sign up to become ‘Blurbers’ under her platform.  No, this is not mere words, as EasyBlurb directly channels 60 percent of its revenue to Blurbers; a wide range of registered influencers (young Nigerians) with 100 views averagely on their WhatsApp status, who sign up and create a profile on www.easyblurb.ng. “Blurbers, through their account pick clients’ materials as designated to them, post as sponsored Ads on their WhatsApp Status, amongst their normal daily posts, and then get paid via their wallet on the platform. They can withdraw from the accumulated earnings in their wallet every two weeks. “EasyBlurb is a conscious attempt on the path of Evergreen Promotions Company, to battle the present economic downtimes. At the moment, EasyBlurb has Blurbers cut across the whole nation and is sure to grow to twenty thousand in no distant time. Would you like to generate some side income using your WhatsApp status in this economic downtime? So sign up today and become a Blurber with EasyBlurb Nigeria.” Goes after illegal tax collectors By Ike Uchechukwu - Calabar Cross River State governor, Professor Ben Ayade, on Monday has made a downward review of the state budget christened Olimpotic Meristemssis from 1.1trillion to 147 billion naira. Recall that in December 2019 Gov Ayade had assented a budget of N1,100,168,507,687.94… July 27, 2020 In "News" House of Representatives has reiterated its position on 2 months free power supply to Nigerians, saying the need was orchestrated by the coronavirus pandemic lockdown. April 30, 2020 In "News" The National Population Commission, NPC, has disclosed that over over 80 percent of Nigerian who are mostly women have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent economic paralysis occasioned by the lockdown. July 29, 2020 In "News"