…. awards contract for completion of 12.5km Challenge-Odo Ona Elewe-Apata road GOVERNOR Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, yesterday, approved the promotion and payment of civil servants dismissed in 2012, by the immediate-past administration who were recalled by the present administration. This was disclosed to newsmen in Ibadan by the state’s Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr Wasiu Olatubosun, after the state’s weekly virtual, executive council meeting. Olatubosun hinted that the gesture was in consonance with the policy of the present government in the state to cater for all without prejudice and to give the workforce cause to be satisfied in other to booster proficiency. He said: “97 civil servants dismissed in 2012 were recalled the moment this administration got into office, the executive council, today, approved their notational promotion and payment of gratuity to the concerned ones among them.” “This is in furtherance of the present administration’s drive to give cause for the working population to be happy for the job they do; it is also a testament to the fact that this is a government with large heart, that caters for the welfare of all.” The commissioner added that the executive council also approved contract for the completion of section 1 and section 2 of the 12.5 kilometres dualization of Challenge-Odo Ona Elewe-Apata road in Ibadan. He said the contractor, Messrs Kopek Construction Nig. Ltd. has agreed to repair all defective portions in section 1 of the road and to embark on the completion of section 2 of the road. “In consideration of displacement of Oyo State residents in this particular area, Oyo State Government has deliberately channelled Section 2 to pass CBN route, so as to reduce the number of residents to be displaced by the construction.” “The road, when completed will significantly reduce traffic along Challenge-Apata axis of Ibadan metropolis; and the delivery period is 12 months.” “The contract was awarded at a total sum of N5,646,384,211.92 which includes compensation (N775,403,670.19) and all statutory deductions,” he explained. Vanguard News The Oyo State Executive Council on Tuesday approved the reinstatement of 300 out 1,803 civil servants sacked by the immediate past administration of Sen.  Abiola Ajimobi. December 10, 2019 In "News" By Adeola Badru Amid jubilation and ecstasy, members of staff of the Oyo State Local Government Service Commission and Local Government Staff Pension Board, were on Friday, full of praises and appreciation to Governor Seyi Makinde for flagging off the construction of secretariat complex for the two agencies since the… June 5, 2020 In "News" By Adeola Badru FOLLOWING the gradual reopening of the Oyo State Secretariat, workers in the employ of the state government have been warned to comply strictly with the COVID-19 guidelines as they are resuming to their various offices. Governor Seyi Makinde, through the state's Head of Service, Mrs Ololade Agboola,… June 22, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"