Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa has signed a law barring government schools from excluding girls, who fall pregnant, from attending lessons. Teachers are also no longer allowed to cane pupils, under amendments to the Education Act, which became law on Saturday. The new law also says that no pupil shall be excluded from school for non-payment of school fees. Prior to the amendments of the law, school authorities could expel a girl for falling pregnant but spare the boy responsible for the same pregnancy, which was seen as discriminatory against the girl-child. The educationists welcomed the amendments as progressive. Primary and Secondary Education Minister, Cain Mathema, said he was excited that the President had signed the new law. “The President has just signed the law and we will fully enforce the provisions for the furtherance of education in the country. “We believe the Act is progressive legislation,’’ he said. Zimbabwe Teachers Association (Zimta)’s Chief Executive Officer, Sifiso Ndlovu, said they fully supported the provisions of the Act as it was consistent with modern society. He said corporal punishment engendered a violent society and it was refreshing that it was removed while the outlawing of the exclusion of pregnant pupils helped in the furtherance of the rights of the girl-child. “As Zimta, we fully participated in the crafting of that law. “Most of what we raised have been included. “We abhor the use of corporal punishment because it is an old-fashioned tool of instilling discipline,’’ he said. “It has the effect of engendering a violent society. “We also support any measure meant to safeguard the interests and rights of the girl-child. “One such provision is outlawing the exclusion of those that fall pregnant. “This is what other societies have embraced and we fully support the provision.’’ Secretary-General, Progressive Teachers Union of Zimbabwe, Raymond Majongwe, however, said that while the law would protect the rights of girls, there were fears that some people could take advantage of that. He also said there should be more consultation on the issue of corporal punishment as pupils could engage in illicit behaviour, knowing that they would not be punished. “There should have been more consultation on these measures, especially on corporal punishment. “Pupils and students may end up abusing drugs, knowing they will not be punished,’’ he said. In terms of the Act, any disciplinary policy shall not permit any treatment, which does not respect the human dignity of a pupil. School authorities are now required to draw up a disciplinary policy in accordance with standards set out in regulations prescribed by the minister. The new law also allows the minister to fix school fees, taking into consideration the location and status of a given school. Xinhua Vanguard News Nigeria President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe has called for the arrest of ministers accused of corruption, with a warning that he would not protect anyone found wanting. October 28, 2016 In "News" The President of Zimbabwe, Emmerson Mnangagwa announced the renaming of ten streets after himself. His decision seems to not have settled well with some citizens of the country. News media in the country reported that there was an uproar following the public announcement of decision after a cabinet meeting on… November 23, 2019 In "Foreign" President Emmerson Mnangagwa said the U. S. government made its recent decision to extend sanctions against Zimbabwe on the basis of misinformation by local opposition parties which are afraid of losing the forthcoming general elections. March 28, 2018 In "News"