Floyd Mayweather must have felt Tyson’s fury in the response he got when he suggested he could help Deontay Wilder defeat the hard-punching Briton in their trilogy fight scheduled for a December date. Fury reignited the war of words between both boxers when he called out Wilder, saying time was not on his side as he has other fighters he intends to get into the ring with. Mayweather offered Deontay Wilder a helping hand for his trilogy bout with Tyson Fury and is confident that with his guidance, the Bronze Bomber can avenge his defeat by the Gypsy King. Wilder triggered a rematch clause and the pair must fight before February 2021, with the WBC ordering Fury to defend his belt against countryman Dillian Whyte by that deadline. Mayweather had during a Q & A session on his UK tour said, ‘If I train him I can teach him how to win.’ Mayweather has remained supportive of Wilder even after his humbling defeat to Fury, tweeting after the loss, ‘Win, Lose or Draw…. Deontay @BronzeBomber is our brother that has accomplished many triumphs and as a community, we should all uplift and support him throughout it all. No matter what, you’re still a winner in my eyes, King!’ Reacting to Mayweather’s statement, Fury threatened to smash Wilder when they finally get to meet, He tweeted, “@FloydMayweather
no matter what you teach him, I will smash him ”. .@FloydMayweather no matter what you teach him, I will smash him  pic.twitter.com/FQ6yK03zl7 — TYSON FURY (@Tyson_Fury) August 22, 2020 The referee had to end the match in the seventh round the last time both boxers met after Fury had Wilder bleeding from almost every part of his face. VANGUARD Deontay Wilder still hopes to face Anthony Joshua in a heavyweight unification bout but is happy to hand rival Tyson Fury a rematch following their epic draw. December 2, 2018 In "Sports" As fight night nears, boxing legends, world champions, celebrities and more shared their predictions for the highly anticipated rematch between unbeaten WBC Heavyweight World Champion Deontay “The Bronze Bomber” Wilder and undefeated lineal champion Tyson “The Gypsy King” Fury ahead of the historic, mega PPV event this Saturday, February 22… February 20, 2020 In "Sports" Deontay Wilder and Tyson Fury meet once again on February 22 in one of the most anticipated rematches of the year. After their first bout ended in a controversial draw, a rematch was inevitable. Rival British boxer Anthony Joshua believes that Fury is in better shape to beat Wilder than… February 14, 2020 In "Sports"