The Governing Council of the University of Lagos, UNILAG, on Tuesday ratified the election of Prof. Folasade Ogunsola as the Acting Vice Chancellor of the institution. It was done at a virtual meeting the members of the Council held with Dr John Momoh presiding as the Interim Chairman of the Council. The Council has also forwarded her name to the Visitor to the university, President Muhammadu Buhari, for approval. The meeting was conducted ahead of the inauguration of a Visitation Panel to probe the affairs of the university from 2017 till date by the Education Minister, Malam Adamu Adamu, scheduled for Abuja on Wednesday. Ogunsola emerged the acting VC on Monday when she was voted in by the Senate of the institution. She polled 135 votes to Prof. Ben Oghojafor, who polled 31 votes at an emergency meeting of the body. Ogunsola is a professor of Medical Microbiology and is the first child of a renowned academician, Prof. Akin Mabogunje. She became the first woman to head the 58-year-old university. Recall that the Vice Chancellor, Prof Toyin Ogundipe, and the Chairman of the Governing Council, Dr Wale Babalakin, SAN, were asked to step aside by the Federal Government following intractable differences between them that led to the Council removing Ogundipe from office. Babalakin appointed Prof. Omololu Soyombo as the Acting VC, but the development further heightened tension on campus, leading to the government finally wielding the big axe. VANGUARD By Adesina Wahab Folasade Ogunsola, a Professor of Medical Microbiology, was on Monday elected the Acting Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, UNILAG, by the Senate of the institution. Ogunsola, until her election as the Acting VC, was the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Development Services and she defeated her counterpart, Prof Ben… August 24, 2020 In "Education" By Adesina Wahab The Senate of the University of Lagos, UNILAG, is set to meet on Monday to choose an acting Vice Chancellor for the institution in accordance with the directive of the Federal Government. The acting VC will be recommended to the Governing Council of the university for the… August 23, 2020 In "Education" THE lingering face-off between the Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Toyin Ogundipe and the Chairman, Governing Council of the institution, Dr. Wale Babalakin, SAN, came to a head, yesterday, as the Council announced the sack of the VC after a meeting held in Abuja. August 13, 2020 In "Education"