Iran is ready to pay compensations pertaining to the Ukrainian passenger plane that crashed in Iran’s airspace in January, head of Iran’s Civil Aviation Organisation told official IRNA news agency on Saturday. Touraj Zangeneh made the remarks ahead of a new round of talks between the two countries’ aviation officials to be held in October in Tehran. “What is evident is that Iran has accepted the responsibility for its mistake and therefore the country is ready for negotiations on paying full compensation for what has been done,” Zangeneh was quoted as saying. “Compensations will be paid within international laws and without discrimination,” he said, adding that “it will include any group that has been affected in the incident.” The Ukraine passenger plane was hit by Iranian missiles after taking off in Tehran’s airspace on Jan. 8, killing all 176 people on board. Iran said that its forces “accidentally” shot the plane down. On July 24, an international team in Paris completed preliminary investigative analysis of the data extracted from the black boxes of the plane. On Aug. 9, Iran’s Minister of Transport and Urban Development Mohammad Eslami said that the final report on the Ukrainian plane crash will be published soon. [Xinhua/NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Iran on Thursday ruled out a missile strike as the cause of a Ukrainian passenger plane crash near Tehran, saying such a scenario made "no sense". The plane crashed shortly after take off Wednesday, killing all 176 people on board, shortly after Iran fired a volley of missiles against military bases in Iraq… January 9, 2020 In "Foreign" A leaked audio recording of an Iranian pilot talking to the control tower in Tehran shows that Iran knew immediately it had shot down a Ukrainian airliner last month, despite denying it for days, Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelenskiy said. On the recording, played on a Ukrainian television station late on… February 3, 2020 In "News" Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Vadym Prystaiko says five countries whose nationals died in the downing tragedy in Iran would gather for a meeting on Thursday to discuss possible legal action against Iran. Prystaiko, who spoke on the sidelines of an official visit to Singapore on Monday, said the issue of compensation… January 13, 2020 In "News"