The All Progressives Congress, APC, in Rivers State has described the apology tendered to the state government and lawmakers by the former leader of the State House of Assembly, Dr. Chidi Lloyd, over the 2013 political brawl in the assembly as a show of lose of integrity and credibility. Lloyd, a former loyalist of the Transportation Minister, Chibuike Amaechi, had on Monday dumped the APC and returned to the People’s Democratic Party, PDP and had while speaking apologised to all lawmakers involved in the assembly saga, including Hon. Michael Chindah, whom he (Lloyd) had attacked with the House Mace. Reacting to the development Tuesday in Port Harcourt, the spokesman of the APC in the state, Ogbonna Nwuke, claimed that the APC was not disturbed with the development. Nwuke, however, expressed worries that Lloyd would dive too low to tender apologies for an event that he got involved without compulsion, adding that Lloyd has chosen to stray away from light. He said: “We have equally listened to his comments and we are amazed that his hunt for the “feeding bottle” that Wike controls could drive him to such a lowly height. “For us, the former member of the House of Assembly who apologized for decisions and actions that he took without compulsion from any quarter, has shown his true colours. His apology raises serious questions about his credibility and integrity. “We state categorically that the exit of Hon. Lloyd would have no effect on the fortunes of the APC On the contrary, APC members in Emohua Local Government Area are jubilating over his exit. All politics, they say, is Local, and these party men and women who are in a happy mood right now know who is who.” Vanguard News Nigeria ...Abandons Amaechi, APC, returns to Wike, PDP ...Any committed politician could have acted same way - Wike ...Development regrettable - Rivers APC By Egufe Yafugborhi - Port Harcourt Former Leader of the Rivers State House of Assembly (RVSH), Dr Chidi Lloyd, has apologised to Michael Chinda, a fellow lawmaker he… August 25, 2020 In "Politics" By Egufe Yafugborhi FORMER Leader of the Rivers State House of Assembly (RVSH) Dr. Chidi Lloyd has apologised to Michael Chinda, a fellow lawmaker he almost killed in a 2013 House fracas fueled by the infamous political rivalry between former Governor Rotimi Amaechi and estranged ally, incumbent Governor Nyesom Wike.… August 25, 2020 In "Politics" Embattled Majority Leader of the Rivers State House of Assembly, Mr Chidi Lloyd who was arrested for allegedly hitting an anti-Amaechi lawmaker with a fake mace may be in for more trouble as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, yesterday stormed the state capital, Port Harcourt to quiz him… August 6, 2013 In "Headlines"