The world of DJ Sunny Yankee and Cybersound revolves round two studios based in Sydney, Australia and Lagos Nigeria. They have decided to create a collaboration album between upcoming artistes in Nigeria and Sydney, Australia. The album titled “Dreams Matters” is a blend of various styles to bring out the creative spectrum and untapped potentials among upcoming artistes. According to the CEO of Cybersound, DJ Sunny Yankee, the album “Dream Matters” came about as an avenue to allow young upcoming stars express and announce themselves to the world. The genre of the album is very diverse, as we have gospel, afropop, pop, R&B and African fusion. The album has 12 tracks and will be available on various platforms for streaming and downloads. Artistes featured on this project include; DJ Sunnyyankee and Cybersound, Saint, Sinmi Jay, Boluwatife, Stanleyton and Black Athena. Listening through the album, you are sure to be infected by the groove, on tracks such as “Turn Up”, the praise infused “Kajormayin Jesu” and the beautifully crafted “Show Them”. VANGUARD The Nigerian music scene has seen its share of rivalry, down the ages, till now. From Barrister Vs Kollington; Obesere Vs KWAM 1; Onyeka Onwenu Vs Christy Essien Igbokwe; Sunny Okosun Vs Fela Anikulapo-Kuti; and now, Nigeria’s two leading pop stars; Davido and Wizkid having been going at each other’s… July 9, 2017 In "Music" Kehinde Adegbite, popularly known as Mallam Yankee is the chairman, The Bank club, Abuja and Yankee Entertainment. He is an entertainment entrepreneur who has worked with several Nigerian artistes and has given many a good platform that launched them into reckoning in the music industry. Mallam Yankee is so visible… October 17, 2015 In "Entertainment" Nigeria-born, South Africa-based Disc Jockey, DJ Bamzyriches has berated the Nigerian music industry and the practitioners for their insensitivity to the plight and aspirations of upcoming artistes, saying the industry is unkind to them. March 29, 2020 In "News"