Mali military rulers said on Saturday they were postponing their first meeting over the transfer of powers due to “organisational reasons” nearly two weeks after ousting the president in a coup. The junta had invited civic groups, political organisations and former rebels to consultations on Saturday, but said in a statement that the meeting was postponed to a later date. A protest coalition that had campaigned against former president Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, the June 5 Movement, had not been invited to participate in the meeting. The group has demanded that the military junta give it a role in the transition to civilian rule which the military has promised, though without a timetable. After an escalating series of mass protests, young army officers mutinied on August 18, seizing Keita and other leaders and declaring they now governed the country. The coup shocked Mali’s West African neighbours and ally France, heightening worries over instability in a country already struggling with an Islamist insurgency, ethnic violence and economic malaise. Mali’s influential imam Mahmoud Dicko, a key player in the mass opposition protests that led to Keita’s ouster, said Friday that the new military rulers did not have “carte blanche”. His comments came as a new document published on the Malian government’s Official Journal said the junta’s head had been effectively invested with the powers of head of state. West African leaders, meanwhile, on Friday demanded an immediate civilian transition and elections within 12 months as they considered sanctions. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Mali must return to civilian rule immediately and hold elections within 12 months, West African countries demanded Friday in a virtual meeting attended by President Muhammadu Buhari, as they considered sanctions over a military coup that toppled the country's president. The demands were spelt out after the new junta released… August 29, 2020 In "News" Army colonel Assimi Goita on Wednesday introduced himself as Mali's new military strongman a day after a coup that was condemned by the international community but won support from the country's opposition. The African Union, European Union, the United States and the UN Security Council have all demanded the junta… August 20, 2020 In "Foreign" Thousands marched Friday in the streets of Mali’s capital to celebrate the overthrow of President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, as the West African nation’s political opposition backed the military’s junta plan to eventually hand over power to a civilian transitional government. But as opponents of the former regime moved ahead with… August 22, 2020 In "Foreign"