The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has cautioned Nigerians to stop the consumption of an organic apple and black currant originating from Australia. Prof. Moji Adeyeye, NAFDAC Director-General, who disclosed this, said the products had been certified harmful for human consumption. “The Centre for Food Safety (CFS) of Hong Kong’s Food and Environmental Hygiene Department has warned against the consumption of Pure Tassie Organic Apple and Blackcurrant Juice originating from Australia. “This was due to unacceptable level of patulin (a mycotoxin) which had exceeded the maximum limit in fruit juice,” she said. Adeyeye pointed out that the level of patulin content in the affected fruit juice can induce liver, spleen, and kidney damage. She added that the toxic level would affect the immune system and causes nausea, gastrointestinal disturbance, and vomiting. She said that the name of the is Pure Tassie, an organic apple and blackcurrant juice from Australia. The D-G implored importers, distributors, retailers, and consumers to immediately stop the importation, distribution, sale, and consumption of the affected fruit juice. She urged members of the public in possession of the affected fruit juice to submit stock to the nearest NAFDAC office. She also called on healthcare professionals and consumers to report adverse events or side effects related to the use of this product to the nearest NAFDAC office through NAFDAC PRASCOR (20543 TOLL-FREE from all networks). Adeyeye said the agency should be reached through pharmacovigilance@nafdac.gov.ng or via the NAFDAC ADR e-Reporting platform available at www.nafdac.gov.ng. NAN Vanguard The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has cautioned Nigerians to stop the consumption of an organic apple and blackcurrant originating from Australia. August 25, 2020 In "Health" Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, the Director-General of the National Agency for Foods and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), said on Tuesday that she inherited a debt of N3.2 billion when she assumed office in November 2017. Adeyeye speaking at an online news conference to highlight the activities of the agency, said… August 25, 2020 In "News" Says chloroquine effective in early stages of Coronavirus infection By Sola Ogundipe & Chioma Obinna The National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control, NAFDAC, on Tuesday said it received about 40 applications for the approval of herbal formulations for the treatment of COVID-19 from researchers in the country.… August 27, 2020 In "Health"