Contrary to the criticism against the federal government’s new request for infrastructure loan from China, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has said that the ongoing work at various stations at the 156km rail line from Lagos to Ibadan is enough proof that the loan was not taken for services and recurrent expenditure but for infrastructure building. The Minister, Lai Mohammed, made the assertion on Saturday at Ibadan station when he accompanied the Minister of transport, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amechi on official inspection of the project. He noted that the inspection with a team of journalists drawn from all segments of the media was scheduled to bring to limelight the extent of work so far accomplished on the multi-million dollar project and to appeal for the cooperation and support of all Nigerians. Meanwhile, the Minister of Transport, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Amechi has ordered the company handling the Lagos-Ibadan rail line project, CCECC to ensure completion of the project in the next five months. The Minister handed down the order at Apapa station lamented that the federal government failed to deliver the project as earlier promised in May due to the advent of COVID-19, assured that the administration would stop at nothing to ensure the project is commissioned at least by January 2021. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has kick-started a nationwide tour of Federal Government's infrastructural projects nationwide with an inspection of the ongoing construction of the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail line. May 9, 2018 In "Metro" The ongoing Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail project can be converted to electric train in future, the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), has assured Nigerians. November 8, 2018 In "News" The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed says that Nigerians are anxious to see speedy completion of the Lagos-Ibadan highway projects in order to reap its full benefits. May 10, 2018 In "News"