The Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education in Delta has approved 10 private schools as centres for the Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) organised by the National Examination Council (NECO). The Commissioner in charge of the ministry, Mr Patrick Ukah, made the disclosure in a statement on Tuesday in Asaba. He explained that the examination was for only JSS 3 students in private schools, who registered for the national BECE, whose resumption was today( Tuesday) “The schools are Master Care Secondary School, Asaba; Heaven Point High School, Asaba; Deeper Life High School, Opete; Udu, DSC Tech High School, Udu. “Top Grade College, Umunede, Wingate Schools, Warri; James Hope College, Agbor, Graceville College, Asaba; Graceville High School, Okpanam and Day Spring Christian College, Opete. “The students are to revise for two weeks before the examination scheduled to start on Aug. 24,” the commissioner said. He said that the committee set up to monitor compliance with the approved COVID-19 protocols would go round the schools, warning that any of them found wanting would be shut down. Ukah said that other schools whose names were not mentioned but were billed yo present students for the examination should seek the ministry’s clearance. “JSS 3 students in public schools, who registered for the state BECE, are expected to resume on Sept. 8, 2020, to start revision for their examination billed to begin on Sept. 21, 2020,” he said. Ukah appealed to stakeholders for patience, saying that the decision to stagger the resumption of schools in the state was to ensure that health of teachers, students and pupils was not jeopardised. NAN Vanguard News Nigeria The Edo State Government has said secondary schools in the state will not resume tomorrow, August 4, 2020, as announced by the Federal Ministry of Education but on Monday, August 10, 2020, for graduating students. In a statement, Commissioner for Education, Hon. Jimoh Ijegbai, said only Senior Secondary School students… August 4, 2020 In "Education" Lagos State Government said yesterday disclosed that 128,149 candidates representing 88 per cent passed in the 2016 Basic Education Certificate Examination, BECE, into Junior Secondary Schools, JSS, in the state. August 25, 2016 In "News" By Elizabeth Osayande Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, has directed that all Junior Secondary School, JSS 3, students who registered for the National Examinations Council, NECO Basic Education Certificate Examination, BECE to resume from Monday, August 10. Recall that the state had earlier directed that SS3 and… August 7, 2020 In "Education"