MAIDUGURI—Boko Haram terrorists have invaded many communities in Magumeri Local Government Area of Borno State, killing scores of farmers and herders after rustling hundreds of their domestic animals, mostly cows. Magumeri is North and about 40 kilometres from Maiduguri, the state capital, which has witnessed a series of Boko Haram attacks. One such attack included the abduction of oil exploration firm’s workers and staff of the Department of Geology, University of Maiduguri, on a mission around the shores of the Lake Chad Basin. Sources said the latest attack forced hundreds of displaced persons from the affected communities of Puciwa and Koleram to take refuge at Magumeri town, with no presence of police and other security agents. Confirming the incident, the Acting Secretary of the council, Mallam Wali, said the whole communities bordering Magumeri Local Government headquarters, Gubio Council and Gajigana axis, near Nganzai council area, were currently under Boko Haram control. His words: “We are much terrified with the latest and deadly attacks by insurgents. “The whole communities bordering Magumeri Local Government headquarters, Gubio council and Gajigana axis, near Nganzai Council Area, have been terrorised. “As I speak to you, communities of Puciwa and Koleram are under Boko Haram control. “This fresh incident has left many of my people dead and injured, while unspecified number of those who survived the onslaught have relocated to Magumeri for safety, as their means of livelihoods have been jeopardised. “But we are doing our best to ensure that the displaced ones are properly taken care of, as we collaborate with security agencies to find lasting peace in the communities.” VANGUARD Suspected armed members of the most dreaded terrorists group in Nigeria, Boko Haram, Sunday invaded a Military Formation at the outskirts of Magumeri Local Government Area of Borno State, and sacked all the inhabitants in the base. May 5, 2019 In "News" Suspected members of the dreaded Boko Haram sect on Sunday night invaded Kurmiri village of Titiwa Ward, about 15 kilometres away from Magumeri Local Government Area of Borno state, in which the terrorists slaughtered the Chief Imam of the village alongside four other persons. September 18, 2017 In "News" Normalcy have returned to Gubio and Magumeri communities of Borno after the Wednesday night attack coordinated by the Boko Haram insurgents. August 22, 2019 In "News"