Veteran actress, Joke Silva is currently championing a crusade to end  the shameful begging of the public for financial assistance to foot the medical bills of ailing actors in Nollywood. The thorough-bred actress is doing so, at the instance of the Actors Guild of Nigeria,AGN, which has revealed  plans to inaugurate health insurance scheme for its members. In a  statement signed by  Joke Silva, MFR,Chairperson of the official launch  committee, the health insurance scheme which will be inaugurated on Monday, August 17, seeks to restore the dignity of professionals in the movie industry. According to Joke Silva,“With this AGN Health Insurance Scheme, registered members of the guild will have access to essential medical and health care services as the need arises.” The statement revealed that the scheme was necessitated by urgent need to  stem the tide of a large number of actors who resort to seeking financial assistance online to address urgent medical challenges despite the strides by the Nigerian film industry globally. The partnership with Medicard, a reputable HMO,according to the statement, is meant to ameliorate this situation. The Health Insurance Scheme, it noted  will also enable actors attend to their medical needs just as it  will position AGN as a responsible and responsive organization. A fund to assist indigent actors pay regular premiums on their medical insurance will also be launched at the event. She thanked the AGN National Executives Council led  by  Emeka Rollas for the laudable initiative and cooperation with the committee all through the planning of event. The virtual launch  event  is expected to have guests drawn from the movie industry,government, corporate world and the media among others. Other members of the committee include Bimbo Manuel, Keppy Ekpeyong Bassey, Ego Boyo, Emeka Enyiocha, Pascaline Alex, Dan Chris Ebie, Uche Elendu with Don Pedro Agbanbi as the secretary. Since the incident happened, I have learnt how not to trust anybody any more. I put my trust now in the Lord. And this is better explained in the new song I recorded. The music captures my story. March 19, 2016 In "Entertainment" Ailing actors  heaved a sigh of relief during the week as the National President, Actors Guild of Nigeria, AGN, Mr. Ejezie Emeka Rollas made good his promise of judiciously disbursing the N5 million donated by the senate president, Dr. Bukola Saraki to the Actors Guild Foundation,AGF. February 9, 2019 In "Entertainment" Nollywood actor, Leo Mezie. is currently battling for his life again after he miraculously survived kidney disease about three  years ago. March 24, 2019 In "Home Video People"