Femi Johnson, a fast-rising Nollywood producer and director, has launched a monologue reality TV show titled MonoRoom for up-and-coming actors in Nigeria. Femi, who believes that the most important resources in Nollywood are talents, has overtime championed the campaign for talent development in Nollywood through his online teachings. Femi Johnson is an award-winning stage director and has also worked on shows like Africa Magic’s Hush and The Johnson, Desperate Housewives Africa, Casino, Oloibiri, Hello Mr Right, Voice to Fame, Prayer Request and lots more in different capacity. MonoRoom was created to give talented actors, who have never had the chance to express themselves on the big screen, the opportunity to showcase their acting skills to the global audience. Interested actors will have to register on www.femijohnson.ng for free and submit a monologue video which will be screened. After screening, 26 actors will be selected from the entry for the first season. In each episode, an actor will be filmed preparing and performing a monologue that was created and scripted by the actor. Femi Johnson will be available to correct, advise and direct the actors in other to bring out the best in their performance. According to Femi Johnson, “MonoRoom is first of its kind and the aim is to feature over one thousand actors within 39 seasons. The reality show will be distributed across different media platforms which include but not limited to cable, terrestrial and social media. Audience around the world will be opportune to watch the actors perform. “MonoRoom will give featured actors a head start in the industry both locally and internationally because clips from the show will be sent to producers, directors and casting director for a possible engagement of the featured actors on the MonoRoom.” VANGUARD There’s a new wave of the very sexiest women and men in Nollywood and they are not just lurking around any more- they are taking over. Faces of the Omotolas, Genevieves, Mercy Johnsons, Jim Iykes, Desmond Elliots, Emeka Ikes and their ilk don’t cut it any more. A new sexy… March 9, 2013 In "Home Video People" Screen favourites Desmond Elliot, Richard Mofe-Damijo, Patience Ozokwor and OmotolaJalade-Ekeinde have been named alongside renowned movie director TundeKelani in alist of 32 of the most influential figures in the Nigerian movie industry released by top entertainment news website TheNETng ahead of the fourth edition of the Nigerian Entertainment Conference (NECLive)… February 15, 2016 In "Entertainment" Ugandan music act Gabriel Kakuru popularly known as Gabriel K is among the few African artists with a fairly big CV in the entertainment industry having being a Tv presenter, producer and director over the years. He started singing at a childhood age and living out his dreams of becoming… May 16, 2020 In "Entertainment"