A court in Malawi’s capital Lilongwe has ordered the arrest of police officers who raped and abused 18 women and girls during anti-government protests last year, as well as compensation payouts. “It is important that the officers … that sexually assaulted and raped the applicants and all other women and girls… be arrested and prosecuted,” High Court judge Kenyatta Nyirenda said in the ruling issued Thursday. Seventeen policemen had been accused of raping and sexually assaulting 18 women and girls during an operation to disperse demonstrators in October in three districts on the outskirts of the city. Three of the victims were under 18 years old. The Women Lawyers Association — which represented the women in court — hailed the judgement as a precedent-setting victory. “The effects of this case will be much broader than just in Malawi,” the association’s president, Tadala Chimkwezule said. “The justice system is not blind and this ruling is very pivotal to the human rights discourse,” she added. Thursday’s judgement was “one of the greatest rebukes to sexual harassment against women and impunity by some police officers in Malawi,” agreed national Ombudswoman Martha Chizuma. A report compiled by the Malawi Human Rights Commission served as evidence in the plaintiffs’ lawsuit. Compensation amounts for the individual victims will be determined by the court’s registrar within 21 days. Vanguard News Nigeria. Malawian police officers raped and sexually assaulted women, some of them in the presence of their children, during a security operation in October, an official state commission responsible for investigating human rights violations has said. In a damning report published on Wednesday, the influential Malawi Human Rights Commission (MHRC) said… December 19, 2019 In "Foreign" A Kenyan High Court has ordered police to reinvestigate complaints of rape by 11 girls in a landmark case brought by a children's charity on behalf of more than 240 victims of child rape. May 29, 2013 In "News" A Malawi court Friday denied bail to an HIV-positive man who is facing charges of having sex with more than 100 adolescent girls as part of initiation rites into womanhood. Eric Aniva, 45, was arrested last month, after he revealed that families paid him between four and seven dollars to… August 5, 2016 In "News"