The British economy is in recession after contracting a record 20.4 per cent in the second quarter as the coronavirus crisis took hold, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said on Wednesday. The quarterly contraction in the April-to-June period was the largest since 1955 when the agency began to keep quarterly records. Gross domestic product (GDP) fell 2.2 per cent in the first quarter, the ONS said. The ONS said there were signs of improvement in June as government restrictions on movement began to ease. “The economy began to bounce back in June, with shops reopening, factories beginning to ramp up production and house-building continuing to recover,” said Jonathan Athow, deputy national statistician at the ONS. Services, production and construction output saw record quarterly falls in the quarter, the agency said, noting “those industries that have been most exposed to government restrictions.” Private consumption was down by over a quarter and government consumption also dropped. Vanguard Spain plunged into recession in the second quarter after its gross domestic product tumbled by 18.5 per cent due to the coronavirus pandemic, official figures showed on Friday. Spain which plunged into recession in the first quarter recorded growth fallen by 5.2 per cent, the Institute of National Statistics said… July 31, 2020 In "Foreign" The UK economy suffered its biggest slump on record between April and June as coronavirus lockdown measures pushed the country officially into recession. The economy shrank 20.4% compared with the first three months of the year. Household spending plunged as shops were ordered to close, while factory and construction output… August 12, 2020 In "Foreign" China saw forecast-beating economic growth in the second quarter after a record contraction in the previous three months, as businesses cautiously returned to normality after strict lockdowns across the country. The figures released Thursday follow a string of data showing the world's number two economy slowly emerging from the outbreak,… July 16, 2020 In "Foreign"