The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi has assured Lagosians of his commitment to discharging his duties even as he is currently under isolation at home after testing positive to COVID-19. Giving the assurance on his twitter handle @ProfAkinAbayomi, Abayomi said: “With utmost sense of responsibility, I am obliged to make it known to the general public that I have tested positive to #COVID19. Consequently, I have proceeded on a 14 days self- isolation and treatment at home. “Nevertheless, I remain committed to continue to discharge my duties as the Commissioner for Health and Deputy Incident Commander for #COVID19 responses in Lagos State. I am extremely enthusiastic and hopeful of overcoming this phase of our collective fight against #COVID19. “I have the full support of the Incident Commander and Governor of Lagos State
@jidesanwoolu, the entire Cabinet of the Government of Lagos State as well as my team @LSMOH to put this behind as soon as possible. “I wish to, however, assure you all that my family members and I are fine and are responding positively to treatment. Let’s us continue to #Maskup and maintain #PhysicalDistancing as well as other established protocols for #COVID19 prevention as appropriate,” he noted. Vanguard News By Sola Ogundipe The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi has assured Lagosians of his commitment to discharging his duties even as he is currently under isolation after testing positive to COVID-19. Giving the assurance on his twitter handle @ProfAkinAbayomi said: "With utmost sense of responsibility, I am… August 25, 2020 In "Health" Lagos State Government has announced the death of a 32-year-old male who was among the 256 Nigerians recently evacuated from the United Arab Emirate after succumbing to COVID-19 related complications. May 12, 2020 In "News" Begins home-based care for asymptomatic patients By Chioma Obinna The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof akin Abayomi Friday disclosed that three private hospitals have already been accredited to manage COVID19 cases even as he said plans are on top gear for the commencement of home-based management of asymptomatic and… June 8, 2020 In "Health"