Juan Sebastian Veron thinks Man Utd flop Alexis Sanchez has had “ups and downs” at Old Trafford like he did, while he also thinks the Chilean is suited to Serie A more than the Premier League. Former Argentina international, Veron, arrived at Old Trafford from Lazio in 2001 for a £28.1million fee. However, his time at Man Utd only lasted two years and 51 Premier League appearances before an even less fruitful spell at Chelsea. Sanchez joined Man Utd in a part-exchange deal from Arsenal – where he was a success – with Henrikh Mkhitaryan moving the other way. But the forward struggled immensely at Old Trafford, scoring just five goals for the club in 45 appearances. The Chilean moved to Inter Milan on a free transfer ten days ago after the Red Devils agreed to pay him a fee to end his contract early. And Veron can see similarities between their two journeys with the Argentine suiting the football in Serie A. Veron said: “I watched Sanchez play here at Inter, he’s got enormous talent and is fantastic for Chile. “Personally, I had some ups and downs at Manchester United, but I was at my best in Italy. “I believe a player really finds he belongs in one league more than another. I know I did and I think that’s true of Alexis Sanchez too. “He is a great representative not just of Chile, but also all of South American football.” Football 365 Vanguard Inter Milan sign Alexis Sanchez from Man United on free transfer August 6, 2020 In "Sports" Under-pressure Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho saw his side score three goals, including a late winner, as they beat lowly Newcastle 3-2 at Old Trafford in the Premier League on Saturday. October 6, 2018 In "Sports" Antonio Conte was delighted to welcome the imminent news of Alexis Sanchez's permanent transfer to Inter after helping the forward recover from "the worst moment of his career". Inter are set to announce the deal for Sanchez from Manchester United on a three-year deal on Thursday, though the move was revealed prior to their Europa… August 7, 2020 In "Sports"