DELTA State Deputy Governor, Deacon Kingsley Otuaro, has said the state government would continue  its robust engagement with communities in the state  in its quest to build a ‘stronger Delta.’ Otuaro stated this yesterday while fielding questions from newsmen at Asaba, th state capital, shortly a meeting with Egbema Leaders of Thought, who came from Egbema Kingdom in Warri North Local Government Area.  The deputy governo   noted that the meeting with the Egbema leaders touched on the developmental needs of the people and how they could   be an integral part of the ongoing Oil Mining License to   be issued by the Federal Government.“Egbema kingdom in Warri North Local Government is one of those major oil and Gas kingdoms in the state and we have so far had some far-reaching understanding to mutually pursue the objectives.” “It is government understanding that issues will always arise whether   it is developmental or political. And as a government, we have always proposed that the way out to solving all of these issues is to always engage the people through dialogue and ensuring that we are on the same page in achieving that which we have billed to achieve.” Barr. Otuaro stated. Amb. Jude Ebitimi Ukori, who spoke to newsmen on behalf of the delegation,     commended the Delta State Governor, Senator (Dr.) Ifeanyi Okowa for taking the lead in projecting the interest of the marginalised people of the Niger-Delta on the issue of the marginal fields and other similar issues. He said   that the people of Egbema kingdom have suffered continous adverse consequences from the oil production in the are. Ukori disclosed the kingdom was   demanding 25 per cent equity holdings in the marginal oil field for host communities, adding: “It does not need a constitutional amendement to go through , but a sense of judgement and political will on the side of government.’ He said   other demands included Egbema representation in the on-going discussions on the marginal fields amd related issues of development at the state and national levels. He added that this would   assuage the youth,   who were already agitated and   running out of patience. He appealed   to the state government to address the political marginalization of Egbema people by having one of their own in the state Executive Council and emergence of the   next Chairman of Warri North from Egbema, after 26 years. Vanguard By Emma Amaize, Asaba Delta State Deputy Governor, Deacon Kingsley Otuaro, has said the state government would continue  its robust engagement with communities in the state in its quest to build a 'Stronger Delta'. Otuaro stated this while fielding questions from newsmen at Asaba, the state capital, shortly a meeting… August 7, 2020 In "News" THE Federal Government has approved a new power project to address the energy demand of 50 riverine communities at Escravos and environs in Warri South-West and Warri North Local Government Areas, Delta State. June 10, 2019 In "News" THE directive, last weekend, by the Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, to the newly constituted Delta State Advocacy Committee against Oil Facility Vandalism, headed by his deputy, Barrister Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, was unambiguous. It was that members of the committee should relocate to the riverine communities in the… May 21, 2016 In "News"