Chief Executive Officer of Monimichelle, Ebi Egbe has declared that Bayelsa’s new sports commissioner, Hon Daniel Igali would deliver, even as he hailed Gov Duoye Diri for settling for the right man. Egbe while congratulating Igali, Egbe said he was happy Diri gave the sports portfolio to a great Ambassador of Bayelsa who has seen it all at the global level. Egbe urged the state government to ensure that adequate attention is paid to sports as a way of combating youth restiveness. He pointed out that Bayelsa was overdue to have a premier league side, even as he added that the state should also consolidate in sports like wrestling, boxing, Canoeing which is an Olympic sport and swimming where it has a comparative advantage. “While maintaining our leadership position in wrestling, swimming, and others, I urge Igali to see that Bayelsa United gains promotion to the top flight of the nation’s league,” Egbe stated. Egbe also pleaded with the state government to ensure that the Asuama Sports Academy project is brought back to life as it would help revitalize sports not only in Bayelsa but Nigeria and Africa. It would be noted that Igali was on Tuesday, alongside other commissioners, sworn in as the new Bayelsa State sports commissioner. “I want to congratulate Igali on the appointment and say a big thank you to Gov Diri for handing the job to a competent Bayelsan. The governor has gotten it right with Igali’s appointment. Igali is a big asset to Bayelsa and Nigeria. With him in charge of Bayelsa sports, I m sure sports in the state would fly,” Egbe said. Vanguard ORDINARILY, one would have expected Bayelsa State’s swimmers and wrestlers to clear all available gold medals at the recently concluded 17th National Sports Festival (NSF) held in Port Harcourt, Rivers state, but alas, the reverse was the case. July 23, 2011 In "Sports" Daniel Igali (Ph.D), born a Nigerian from Eniwari village in Bayelsa State became a Canadian by naturalisation in the 1990s not because he loved it so much but because he wanted to prove that he had potentials that could make him great in the sport of wrestling he had chosen. April 22, 2012 In "Sports" GOVERNOR'S CUP: Mayuku and Setraco personnel, sponsors of the 2nd edition of the Governor's Cup held in Asaba. December 12, 2009 In "Sports"