Billionaire Businessman Dr Jimoh Ibrahim has sounded a death knell on the chances of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the forthcoming Governorship election in Ondo State. The Ondo Guber poll is slated for October 10th and ahead of the election, the Harvard trained Business Administrator and Finance expert is been celebrated officially for joining the All Progressives Congress, (APC) in Ondo State at a huge political event at Igbotako his country home. Barrister Jimoh Ibrahim in a chat with the press on the sideline of the event that marked his official defection from PDP to APC, expressed his pity for the dwindling fortune of PDP in Ondo State, describing the party as one which has never shown seriousness about winning the Governorship seat in Ondo State. He noted that the hue and cry of PDP in Ondo State is synonymous with the death gasps of a dying man who is at the end of his tethers, therefore, the party deserves empathy of all well-meaning Ondo State people, stressing that most definitely, the coffin of PDP will be nailed on October 10th in Ondo State. “PDP’s cry to death is not new to me,” Ibrahim said excitedly. “As far as PDP is concerned in the Sunshine State, it is a dead party! The expected date of its burial is October 10th, 2020. Unfortunately, the dying party has no successor, so chances are it will die a natural death in Ondo State unsung.” Expressing confidence in the superlative victory of Gov Oluwarotimi Akeredolu in the October poll, Jimoh Ibrahim said, PDP will come a distant third at the poll. He said since PDP had crashed at the poll in 2016, the woeful party had lost its election operational data and ever since, the party had behaved like it is marooned in a political wilderness, quick always to make political mistakes that make them appear not cut out for political leadership in Ondo State. “Take for instance, in the last Primary of the jaded party, a serving Governor from another state brought a hundred million cash to support one of the aspirants, otherwise, the party may not even have had a candidate. ”The Araba of Ikale Land dared the cash frittering Governor to bring all his billions to Ondo State for the October Guber poll, stressing that while the Governor will born his cash, the incumbent Ondo State Governor will win the poll with a convenient lead. While announcing his defection to APC, Barr Ibrahim donated 51 Kia Picanto utility vehicles and campaign materials running into hundreds of millions to support Gov. Akeredolu’s second term bid. Barrister Jimoh Ibrahim equally commended the supportive role of the Ondo State First Lady and wife of the Governor, Arabinrin Betty Anyanwu Akeredolu, describing her as a companion whose productive and welfarist programmes have rubbed off positively on her husband’s administration. Ibrahim noted that Gov Akeredolu should be grateful for having such an incredible wife and First Lady. Vanguard Ondo election: Sacked governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Jimoh Ibrahim has said that only the All Progressives Congress, APC, governorship candidate in the ongoing election in Ondo state, Rotimi Akeredolu "possess the right mentality, competence, readiness and moral amplitude to lead Ondo State." November 26, 2016 In "News" …Says Ajayi missed a golden opportunity Dayo Johnson Akure BUSINESS mogul Jimoh Ibrahim has formally defected to the All Progressive Congress in Ondo state boasting that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state is dead without him. Speaking during his defection held at lgbotako in Okitipupa council area of… August 28, 2020 In "News" Riots erupted across many parts of Ondo state yesterday as protesters trooped to the streets to protest the substitution of the name of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP, governorship candidate, Mr Eyitayo Jegede SAN by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) with that of Barrister Jimoh Ibrahim for next month’s… October 29, 2016 In "News"