The singer, who hails from Delta State but grew up in Lagos, got tongues wagging about his talent with his chart topping single, ‘Trouble’. He followed it up with ‘Uplifted’ featuring Duncan Mighty, ‘Baller’ featuring Slimcase and Mr Real and ‘Money is power’ featuring DJ Consequence. The songs, many believed, set him apart as one act who understands the music scape and knows how to get fans grooving. Despite a fast growing music career and two EPs to show for, among other feats, OritseLaju is one entertainer who also makes headlines with his modelling acts. On how he copes with two apparently demanding fronts, the self-sponsored artiste who is signed to his own label, Laju records, revealed that his passion for the two entertainment fronts and consistency in doing them over the years meant that he is able to seamlessly combine singing and modelling. With his songs topping charts a d visuals gaining widespread attention and acclaim, Laaj added that his best was yet to come and told fans to expect even more works from their favourite. Speaking on his career, the singer cum model disclosed that he started out his music career at the tender age of 12, as a dancer and he patterned his music style after legends such as Michael Jackson, Fela Kuti and Bob Marley. VANGUARD 2018 was unarguably an amazing year for the Nigerian music industry. With the release of credible hit songs from 2Baba, Davido, Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, Falz, Simi, Adekunle Gold, Kizz Daniel, Duncan Mighty, Yemi Alade, Victor AD, Barry Jhay, Erriga, Teniola, Flavour, Reekado Banks, Skibi, Mayorkun, Dremo, Olamide, Chinko Ekun, Zlatan… January 12, 2019 In "Music" The Nigerian music industry has probably never experienced the amount of buzz it experienced in 2018. Of course, it would be almost impossible to fully recount them all for obvious reasons. In terms of recognition, global penetration, and quality of music, 2018 superseded previous years, which is why it may… January 5, 2019 In "Entertainment" By DAMILOLA SHOLOLA Douglas Jack Agu popularly known by the stage name Runtown has proven that he is not just a one-hit wonder like so many artistes of his time. His chart topping hit Gallardo featuring Davido got him an award for Best Collaboration of The Year 2014 at the… December 12, 2014 In "Showtime People"