The Governing Board of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has approved the promotion of 595 staff, including nine Directors. The promotions were approved at a meeting of the Board in Lagos chaired by Hon. Asita O. Asita. A statement issued by the Agency’s Spokesman, Philip Kyanet, said  Nine Deputy Directors were elevated to substantive Directors on Grade Level 17, while 45 Assistant Directors were promoted to Deputy Directors, and 71 Grade Level 14 officers were promoted to Assistant Directors. Those promoted to Directors are the Agency’s Head, ISPS Unit, Jidda Aishatu; Head, Marine Accident Investigation Unit, Egbuche Rita; Head, Eastern Zone, Audu Sani; and Head, Internal Audit, Olamide Odusanya. Others are Head, HSE Unit, Dr. Anselm Nwanze; Head, Legal Services Unit, Egejuru Victor; Head, SERVICOM, Bolaji Kehinde; Head, Reform Coordination Unit, Kabiru Murnai; and Head, Marine Environment Management Department, Dr. Felicia Mogo.  The Agency’s spokesman, Kyanet, is among the newly promoted Deputy Directors. Director-General of NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, congratulated the promoted staff and charged them to bring their wealth of knowledge and experience to bear on their new positions. Jamoh stated, “To whom much is given, much is expected. This promotion is intended to reinvigorate the attitude of staff to work and bring about more commitment towards transforming the fortunes of the maritime sector.” The Governing Board of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has approved the promotion of 76 management staff of the Agency to their next grade levels.The promotions were approved at the 34th meeting of the Board, held in Lagos under the chairmanship of General Jonathan India Garba (rtd). December 25, 2016 In "Business" President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of members of the Governing Board of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). March 10, 2020 In "News" P/Harcourt - Dr Dakuku Peterside, Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) says the management of the agency is on course in its bid to reform, reposition, restructure and reorganise it. Peterside said this when he was briefing the Chairman of NIMASA Governing Board, Retired Maj-Gen. Jonathan Garba and… February 7, 2017 In "News"