ABUJA — President Muhammadu Buhari has canvassed for support of traditional leaders to stem the tide of insecurity in the country. The President, who made the call at the palace of the Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar on Saturday, acknowledged that traditional and religious institutions have contributed to the sustenance of peace in the nation. He was represented by the Attorney-General and Minister for Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, who led the Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi and the Inspector General of Police, Muhammad Adamu to the wedding Fatiha of the children of the families of Ambassador Shehu Malami and Late Alhaji Musa Abubakar. Malami was quoted in a statement that was signed by his media aide, Dr. Umar Gwandu, to have told the audience that the Federal Government has been relentless in its fight against armed banditry and other forms of criminalities in the country. “Mr President has directed us to express gratitude to you for all the support you have overtime been extending to his government specifically on security matters and other associated social ills that have been bedevilling this country of ours”, Malami added. While conveying the felicitations of the President to the Sultan on the wedding, Malami further stated that President Buhari also appreciated the monarch’s contribution towards the attainment of peace in the country. According to the statement, the Sultan, in his remarks, expressed his “total support” in seeing to the success of the President Buhari-led administration, saying “we will continue to do our best to see that peace, stability and development reign in Nigeria.” “He commended the steadfastness and cooperation of the traditional institutions for the federal government’s efforts in maintenance of peace and order in the country”, the statement added. Vanguard News Nigeria By Samuel Adegbola INDISPUTABLY, the indigenous security outfit set up by state governors of the South-West geopolitical zone, Amotekun, was birthed by the alarming insecurity in the country. By the Constitution, the President is the chief security officer of the nation. The ‘chief’ which is synonymous with principal suggests there… January 31, 2020 In "Viewpoint" Niger State governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello has charged the traditional institution to remain vigilant for further maintenance of peace and to curtail any act capable of breaking law and order. October 29, 2016 In "News" A Civil Society Organisation (CSO), Guardians of Democracy and Development (GODD), has urged the Senate to confirm the ministerial nomination of former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami to take President Muhammadu Buhari’s fight against corruption to the next level. July 26, 2019 In "News"