If only our politicians had guts. They will bark in the morning, and grovel, and beg at night. In the beginning Edo was   Lagos. Then Oshiomhole carried him on his back , went everywhere, and convinced people to make him governor. A child on his mother’s back wouldn’t know that walking isn’t as easy as sucking breast milk. When he was on Oshiomhole’s back, Oshiomhole told everyone one he would develop Edo like Lagos. Then Edo was Lagos. But once they disagreed, he chose a most treacherous slogan. “Edo is not Lagos” he told his supporters. And they cheered. But when couch time came, when he began fretting   on the eve of the APC screening,   he assembled his political  Umunna ,  contravened COVID travel protocols , ran to Lagos, and in broad daylight, prostrated in Bourdillon.   It was too late. The stick didn’t come in time , so he needed nine. But trust once shattered cannot be meted in a hurry. He left empty handed and scampered to Abuja.   But it all came to nothing. The men who had egged him on delivered less than they promised.   Once he was screened out, he reverted to his old   slogan and started chanting “Edo is not Lagos! Edo is not Lagos!” Edo is truly not Lagos. Were Edo Lagos, he would not have had the guts to shout on his opponents whom he described as social media paper nonentities   if they ever set foot on Oba market in Benin.   No he wont. Because in Lagos nobody owns the mouth of his neighbor. In Lagos, we might not be rich,   ‘awon boys’   own their mouths, and that is non negotiable.   We can ‘yab’ governors in Eko. If Edo were Lagos he would have known that nobody takes permission from anyone to visit his home. Nobody, let alone a former governor. When a governor develops the temerity to demand that people visiting their homes   from other states obtain permission from him before entering the state you will   know he is not the the governor of Lagos.  Mbanu,  in Lagos we have passed that level. Edo can’t be lagos. In Edo, a governor once procured thugs who used trucks to block all roads leading to the home of his party’s National   chairman . We have   many  Agberos  in Lagos. But Lagos  Agberos  know their limits. Even if an  Agbero  became governor in Lagos, which is not impossible, he will know that the residents of the states are not laborers squatting in his father’s backyard. So he cannot block roads with trucks just to prove that he has capacity to do so. Such childishness can only happen outside Lagos. Because in Lagos   people can fool people but they never imagine that the fooled have no balls. But how can Edo even be Lagos? Is it not the same Edo where the governor inaugurated the House of Assembly clandestinely in the middle of the night?   Okay, he would say it was the clerk that chose to do it like a witch. But we are not children , are we? In Lagos we have godfathers but nobody   treat’s   state matters with indignity. Imagine a state legislature being inaugurated at night and some of the legislators coming in shorts and bathroom slippers. That can’t happen in Lagos. In Lagos we have institutions, we have   courts that are respected. Not courts   where evening black market   injunctions are sold. Edo is not Lagos. Yes we know. Tax collectors in Lagos go about their business discreetly. Okay, sometimes, some men in black and white   uniforms   who call themselves VIO officers stop vehicles   and pretend to bother about their road worthiness.   Okay, some consultants collect taxes , boost IGR of the state, collect commissions and inspire tongues to wag.   But that is it. Otherwise we   buy tickets to watch movies. Nobody runs around the region ‘negotiating’ to get a party ticket. How can Edo be Lagos? Captain Hosa Okunbo, an Edo based retired pilot and   industrialist has been lamenting. He chose to support a candidate and some persons are maliciously using the instrument of state to intimidate him and suffocate his businesses.   These are the same folks mouthing strategies to lure   investment into the state.   In Lagos businessmen choose whomever they like and support them during elections.   They are free. In the last governorship elections in   2015 and 2019, most Igbo business men supported the opposition party in the state. And they suffered no repercussions before, during and after those governorship elections. Let me tell you something. No Lagos governor has ever come on   the television to brag about his immunity . No Lagos governor has ever threatened   to deal with an opposition party candidate in public. No Lagos governor has ever talked proudly about having ‘boys’ who can visit mayhem on their opponents. No Lagos governor has vindictively demolished houses of opponents or tampered with their certificates of occupancy. It’s obvious Edo is not Lagos. A Lagos governor will not come on television and concoct tales about a medical   research done in a teaching hospital and conclude that it was unsafe to conduct party primaries at the wards but   safe to bring thousands of people from the villages into one stadium in the state capital. Lagos governors may not be geniuses but they do not tell childish lies and do not engage in petty   partisan nonsense. A Lagos governor would collect money from the opposition and rent to them any facility they would need   for their campaign. Who even suggested   Edo could be Lagos? Edo no be Eko oo! VANGUARD  •APC deceived Edo people with lies, stalled governance with godfather-godson crisis By Ozioruva Aliu OUTGOING Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo State, Chief Dan Orbih, who has been in the saddle for 12 years, and whose tenure will end this month spoke to Vanguard on Edo politics,… March 11, 2020 In "Politics" Outgoing Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo State, Chief Dan Orbih, who has been in the saddle for 12 years, and whose tenure will end this month spoke to Vanguard on Edo politics, chances of the PDP in the forthcoming governorship election and how the party would… March 10, 2020 In "Politics" In less than 60days, the eight years of Adams Eric Aliyu Oshiomhole as governor of Edo State will come to an end. Oshiomhole, a career trade unionist, is the first union leader in Nigeria to hold an executive office. October 2, 2016 In "Politics"