Barcelona forward Lionel Messi has submitted a transfer request to the club Vanguard reports. According to Goal the 33-year-old sent a fax to Barcelona asking the club to allow him activate a clause in his contract that will allow him to leave on a free transfer this summer, with his deal currently set to expire at the end of next season. However, the club maintains the clause expired in June and he remains under contract until the end of the 2021 season. “In principial, this clause expired on June 10, but the unusual nature of this season disrupted by the coronavirus opened the way for Messi to ask to be released from his contract now,” wrote Spanish sports daily Marca. “It’s the first step towards opening negotiations over his departure, on the basis of which his release clause amounts to 700 million euros.” According to Spanish media, Messi met with new Barca coach Ronald Koeman last week and told the Dutchman he saw himself “more out than in” the club. “The end of the glorious era of Leo Messi at Barcelona seems to be close. After the arrival of Ronald Koeman, what looks like the exit of his friend Luis Suarez and a difficult and turbulent end to the season, Messi told Barcelona in a fax of his intention to leave the club,” said Once radio station. Barcelona suffered a humiliating 8-2 defeat by Bayern Munich in the Champions League quarter-finals in Lisbon earlier this month, resulting in the dismissal of coach Quique Setien after barely six months in charge. VANGUARD In news that will shock Barcelona supporters, reports in England suggest that Manchester City are preparing to submit an offer of 233 million euros to acquire the services of Lionel Messi. November 21, 2016 In "News" Emmanuel Petit has warned Manchester City off signing Lionel Messi, claiming the Barcelona star does not have the physical capabilities to deal with the Premier League. Messi’s future at the Nou Camp looks uncertain following a row with sporting director Eric Abidal, and he could be available on a free… February 10, 2020 In "Sports" Lionel Messi is seriously contemplating quitting Barcelona next summer and his dad has already spoken to Manchester City about making a sensational switch to the Etihad. August 24, 2017 In "Sports"