The Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare the 11 has called on political parties participating in the Edo 2020 election to go about their campaigns peacefully. The Royal Majesty made the call when he received a delegation of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on a courtesy visit at his Palace in Benin on Saturday. The APC delegation, led by Yobe Governor, Mai Mala Buni, was in Benin for the official flag-off of the party’s campaign for its Edo 2020 Gubernatorial candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. The Oba said the Palace had not been happy with the recent happenings in the state. He called on everyone in the state to pray for a peaceful Edo election. “There is nothing as powerful as prayers. “As you go about your campaign, go about it peacefully and without bitterness,” the monarch said. Oba Ewuare also reiterated that he remained non-partisan and had never supported any political candidate. He said, “We remain non-partisan because of the laid down rules of our ancestors; we must be fathers to all. “We see every candidate as our child and we pray for everybody. It is wiser to leave the fate of the election to God. “I am not against any candidate; I have never been for or against any candidate but when the people have chosen via the election, we will pray for him to succeed in office.’’ Speaking on behalf of the delegation, the Yobe Governor and Chairman, APC National Caretaker Committee, said the visit was to present the Edo 2020 APC governorship candidate to the royal majesty for his blessings. Buni was optimistic that APC would reclaim the state come Sept. 19. Vanguard News Nigeria SEVERAL persons were, yesterday, injured as supporters of the two main political parties in the country, All Progressives Congress, APC, and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, clashed near the palace of the Oba of Benin when PDP governors, led by the Chairman of the PDP Campaign Council, Governor Nyesom Wike,… July 26, 2020 In "News" The Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, on Saturday said plans were underway to summon the Edo Council of Traditional Rulers and Chiefs to pray for a peaceful election in the state. The Oba made this known when Gov. Godwin Obaseki led some governors, senators and other top-ranking officials of… July 25, 2020 In "News" THE Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, yesterday, warned politicians against turning the state into a war zone as they campaign for the September 19 governorship election. July 30, 2020 In "News"