The management of University College of Hospital, UCH, Ibadan, Oyo State, has written to the family of late Richard Gbadebo, a 300 level student of Department of European Studies, University of Ibadan, UI, who died last month at a factory in Ibadan. The letter was to explain the College’s role in the autopsy report that the family is not comfortable with. Recall that the family, in a petition dated August 7, had expressed reservations in the postmortem report dated August 4 and signed by Dr. C. A. Okolo, Consultant and Pathologist of UCH. However, in a reply dated August 24, with reference number HG/CON.851, by Niyi Ajayi, Director of Administration, on behalf of CMD, to the deceased family through its lawyer, Abope Chambers, headed by Femi Aborishade, among others, said the late Richard’s “body was stored and embalmed at Teju Specialist Hospital and not Adeoyo Hospital, as we earlier stated and that the report have been updated to reflect same. “The Pathology Department of the University College Hospital, Ibadan, did not have anything to do with the embalmment of the body, as it had been done before we received the body for autopsy. “Our discussions were with the Police only and there was no discussion whatsoever between us and the company at any point in time. “The clinical summary, as was stated, is not a component of our autopsy finding. The provisional report was written and handed over to the Police to enable them carry out further investigations. “The autopsy is a forensic death investigation and we are obliged to forward our final autopsy report when it is ready only to the police and this can be obtained from them subsequently. “We do not have any further interest in the case beyond the police-mandated forensic death investigation. “I hope all the above-mentioned points has been able to convince you that the Hospital, in fact, exercised due diligence in carrying out the autopsy as requested by the Police,” UCH added. VANGUARD By Victor Ahiuma-Young The family of late Richard Gbadebo, the 300 level student of the University of Ibadan, who died in an industrial accident at a factory in Ibadan, Oyo State, has petitioned the Chief Medical Director, CMD, University College Hospital, UCH, Ibadan, raising concerns in the autopsy report. This… August 9, 2020 In "Metro" By Adeola Badru HUMAN rights activist, Femi Aborisade, (Esq.), the Managing Partner of Abope chambers, has made a passionate plea to Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, to order an immediate investigation to the mystery surrounding the death of Gbadebo Richard. Gbadebo, who was a 300-level student of European Language… August 25, 2020 In "News" IBADAN—FOLLOWING the tragic death of Gbadebo Richard, a 300-level University of Ibadan student, who died last Monday, while on a night shift at the Henkel Industries Ltd, makers of WAW detergent, located at Oluyole Industrial Estate, Ibadan, Oyo State, facts emerged that no single blood was found on his body… August 6, 2020 In "News"