Lyon coach Rudi Garcia hopes his team’s victory over Cristiano Ronaldo’s Juventus showed that the French club are not just makeweights in the tournament. Lyon saw-off of one of the favourites, Juventus to book a place in the quarter-final where they will face English giant Manchester City on Saturday. A victory over Guardiola’s side will make it only the second time the Ligue 1 has made it as far as the semi-finals of the Champions League. “It gave us more confidence. We want to stay a long time in Lisbon even if we know that City remains the big favourites in this match,” he said. “The first quarter-finals have shown that the big teams can be scared. I hope that will continue on Saturday.” The French side also showed what they are capable of in taking four points from a possible six against City in the group stage of last season’s Champions League. “It was wonderful what they did back then but now it’s another moment, and a knockout game. It shows that no game is lost,” he added. “One of the keys is to keep the ball and to score. We are a team capable of doing that. We must also be more dangerous up front.” VANGUARD Rudi Garcia called Lyon's loss to Juventus "the happiest defeat of my career" as his side earned a place in the Champions League quarter-finals. Memphis Depay's early penalty ultimately earned an away-goals victory for Lyon, despite Cristiano Ronaldo's double in Turin meaning the last-16 tie ended 2-2. Manchester City, who overcame Real… August 8, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester City took advantage of two shocking mistakes by Raphael Varane to beat Real Madrid 2-1 in their Champions League last 16 second leg on Friday and advance to the quarter-finals August 7, 2020 In "Sports" Juventus coach Maurizio Sarri said he was "bitter" as the Italian giants crashed out of the Champions League on Friday to Lyon despite a Cristiano Ronaldo double giving the hosts a 2-1 win over the French club on the night. Captain Memphis Depay's 12th-minute penalty however, sealed Lyon's berth in… August 8, 2020 In "News"