Boss Mustapha, chairman of the presidential task force, PTF, Thursday said that out of thirteen thousand, eight hundred and forty-four, (13,844), evacuees tested for covid-19, about  six hundred and eighty-four, (684), came out positive. He made the disclosure at a media briefing in Abuja. According to him: “The PTF appreciates all our young people who have stepped out and are contributing to the fight against the pandemic and implore others yet to do so, to join this fight with all the necessary passion their youthful energy can bring to bear. “I am sure that our risk communication and community engagement strategy would gain a lot of mileage if the various youth organisations and the youth themselves heed this call. “It might interest you to note that of the 14,906 evacuees received during this COVID-19 pandemic, close to 80 percent are youths for which we are glad that only 684 tested positive for the coronavirus out of the 13,844 so far tested. “The country has effectively entered the second week of the extended eased lockdown phase and the PTF continues to monitor global and national trends in the response to the COVID-19 pandemic. “Globally, the world continues to pursue the search for a vaccine with over 1,000 trials ongoing and different claims of levels of success. We note, particularly, the announcement by the President of Russia on the breakthrough in the development of a vaccine even as we study the developments. “Fighting the pandemic successfully will take a global effort and Nigeria will not be left out whenever and where ever progress is made. However, the health and safety of Nigerians will always remain our priority in the pursuit of a solution. “For us in Nigeria, we shall remain focused on propagating the use of proven avoidance methods to break the transmission of the virus and effective case management to care for and treat infected persons.” Vanguard The federal government said, yesterday, it was currently studying the claims of Russia to a vaccine for Coronavirus. August 14, 2020 In "Health" FG studying Russia's claim of vaccine Says, over 1,000 trials ongoing globally 684 positive out of 13, 844 Nigerian returnees Decries resurgence in infection of health workers By Omeiza Ajayi For the first time in recent weeks, Nigeria has gone a day without recording a COVID-19 case fatality, a development government… August 13, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, on Monday, called for unity in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. Mustapha, who is also the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, made the call at the PTF daily briefing on COVID-19 in… April 27, 2020 In "News"