BENIN —The Edo APC governorship campaign train touched down in Etsako East LGA on Wednesday with the party’s candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and party leaders spreading the message of the SIMPLE Agenda to the Palace of the Traditional ruler and inhabitants of Agenebode, its headquarters. At the palace of the Okumagbe of Weppa Wano, HRH George Egabor Omoze I could not hide his happiness as Pastor Ize-Iyamu paid him homage and gave him copies of his Manifesto, the Simple Agenda as he called him, ‘’My Son in whom I am pleased.” He blessed the APC candidate and declared: “I pray for you that God protects you and God gives you what you want…we pray that God will make what you are aspiring for to come true – that is our prayer.” The Okumagbe went down memory lane to recall how much his community and the Etsako East local government benefited from the Edo State Government when Pastor Ize-Iyamu served first as Chief of Staff and later as Secretary to the State Government. “All the things we have here today I got them while he (Ize-Iyamu) was in government: the High Court, College of Agriculture, a transformer in front of my house (palace), my appointment as Chairman/Governing Council of Usman Dan Fodio University (Sokoto), College of Education-Ekiadolor and Usen; that was when he was in government.” Pastor Ize-Iyamu while presenting his Simple Agenda to the monarch whom he described as one who is passionate about development like himself added that Agenebode occupied a strategic position and its potentials have not been fully exploited to move Edo forward. Vanguard News Nigeria Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the candidate of the APC in the Edo Governorship election, has promised to reopen and revamp the College of Agriculture, Agenebode, Etsako East Local Government Council of the state if elected Governor of Edo State in September. August 12, 2020 In "News" Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the September 10, Edo State governorship election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has vowed to probe incumbent Governor Adams Oshiomhole if elected into office, declaring that every kobo that accrued to the state must be accounted for. The Redeemed Christian Church of God pastor also asked… July 24, 2016 In "News" THE All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday, charged the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, as well as Governors Godwin Obaseki of Edo and Nyesom Wike of Rivers to purge themselves of their age-long undemocratic habits of election rigging, vote-buying and violence. August 12, 2020 In "News"