The US Food and Drug Administration, FDA, has authorised the emergency use of a saliva test for COVID-19, opening door to wider testing. Developed by researchers at the Yale School of Public Health, the test offers a less-invasive alternative to the current standard of nasal swabs for Covid-19 testing, while still being highly sensitive. The test doesn’t rely on the kinds of chemical reagents that have led to shortages for other tests and samples can be processed in less than three hours. Yale plans to make the protocol behind the new test available to other labs across the country and is suggesting that the test be offered at $10 per sample, which would also make it relatively inexpensive. Making the test more widely available could be a game changer, as testing delays have plagued the U.S. response to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Rarely am I this enthusiastic,” former CMS administrator Andy Slavitt tweeted about the test. “They are turning testing from a bespoke suit to a low-cost commodity.” Vanguard By Sola Ogundipe The US Food and Drug Administration, FDA, has authorised the emergency use of a saliva test for COVID-19, opening door to wider testing. Developed by researchers at the Yale School of Public Health, the test offers a less-invasive alternative to the current standard of nasal swabs for… August 22, 2020 In "Health" The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Friday approved the first diagnostic test for coronavirus using saliva samples collected at home. The test, which was granted an emergency use authorization by the FDA, was developed by Rutgers Clinical Genomics Laboratory. The agency last month approved a COVID-19 diagnostic test… May 8, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Sola Ogundipe The US Food and Drug Administration has authorised the use of the first rapid diagnostic test that could detect the coronavirus in approximately 45 minutes. Tests will begin this week, according to a statement from California-based Cepheid, the company manufacturing the tests. Clinicians say faster testing will help… March 23, 2020 In "Health"