 BENIN – The Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Council for Edo Governorship election, Chief Dan Orbih has alleged that the indiscretion of the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole was responsible for the division in his party. Orbih and candidate of the party in the election, Governor Godwin Obaseki stated this during a campaign rally Wednesday in Ward 3 Etsako East Local Government Area of the State. Orbih said: “Since Adams Oshiomhole started sowing the seed of division in APC, Adams infected APC with political Coronavirus. His indiscretion has led to the disintegration of APC in Nigeria” Addressing PDP members and supporters on why he is seeking re-election for a second term in office, Governor Godwin Obaseki who declared that Edo is not Lagos State accused few people in the State of wanting to take over the resources of the State. According to him, “Edo is not Lagos State. We must change anything that has been done wrongly”. “Our people are not asking for too much. The money is available, but only a few people want to take over the resources”. The incumbent Governor also recalled how he fought to reclaim the hectares of land that was allegedly taken from the people of Etsako East Local Government Area of the State by intruders. He also appealed to eligible voters in the locality to vote PDP to enable him to attract more development to the people of the locality, particularly in road construction and empowerment of youths and women. In Ward 2, Agenobode in Etsako East Local Government Area while addressing electorate. the Chairman of DAAR Communication, African Independent television/Ray Power, urged his kinsmen to work towards the re-election of the incumbent Governor for sustainable progress and secure their future. Vanguard News Nigeria As Obaseki approves 12.75km Ososo-Okpella road construction By Gabriel Enogholase BENIN - EDO State chapter of the Peoples Democratic party (PDP) has  dragged the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to the court of public opinion, urging him to present his primary School Leaving… August 4, 2020 In "Politics" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State has raised the alarm that the the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) led by Governor Adams Oshiomhole was working on a plan to rig the September 10 governorship election in the state, calling on government institutions and security agencies to beware and… July 21, 2016 In "News" Political stakeholders in Edo State are watching with bated breath as Governor Godwin Obaseki confronts his political mentor and predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole in a battle of wits that is being said to be a repeat of a classic battle 11 years ago. October 28, 2019 In "News"