The Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, NSIA’s $5.5 million modern Umuahia Diagnostic Centre (NUDC) Abia State was, yesterday, virtually commissioned, with a view to providing accurate and accessible diagnostic services for the South-East and South-South Regions. In his remarks, Managing Director of NSIA, Mr. Uche Orji, said: “Our vision for healthcare is three-fold, which centres around reducing medical tourism, developing and investing in centres of excellence, which will provide world-class healthcare services domestically and lastly, providing tools which will ensure that our healthcare professionals are able to deliver at the highest level. “The completion of the NUDC is expected to raise the bar in the quality and standard of diagnostic services in the two regions for the benefit of the Nigerian people. “NUDC is equipped with state-of-the-art radiology equipment including a CT scanner, X-ray machines, mammography machines and ultrasound machines. “It is expected that the centre will conduct up to 35,000 patient investigations within the first year of operation, providing high quality diagnostic services that  had previously been unavailable in the South East and South South regions.” He said NSIA and FMCU were confident that this project, along with the other healthcare investment by the Authority, will serve as proof of concept to attract additional investment to Nigeria’s healthcare sector. Vanguard The Federal Ministry of Health, yesterday, entered into an agreement with the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, NSIA, managers of the nation’s sovereign wealth fund, to launch a comprehensive healthcare investment programme covering all six geo-political regions of the country that will also help stem the loss of over $1 billion… May 3, 2016 In "Business" THREE Federal healthcare institutions,  the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, LUTH, Lagos; the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, AKTH, Kano and  the Federal Medical Centre Umuahia, FMCU, Abia State, are beneficiaries of a $20 million joint investment aimed  towards providing Nigerians access to world class healthcare. March 26, 2018 In "Health" THREE Federal healthcare institutions,  the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, LUTH, Lagos; the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, AKTH, Kano and  the Federal Medical Centre Umuahia, FMCU, Abia State, are beneficiaries of a $20 million joint investment aimed  towards providing Nigerians access to world class healthcare. March 27, 2018 In "Health"