Israeli police, early on Sunday, arrested 12 protesters, who refused to end a protest against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, a spokesman said. A Jerusalem area deputy commander, Ofer Schumer, said that police used “reasonable force” against a handful of protesters, who refused to vacate the street outside Netanyahu’s official residence by 2 a.m. on Sunday morning (11p.m., Nigerian time on Saturday). However, a protester, Gil Barda, told DPA police that conduct had been excessively “aggressive” as crowds, who refused to leave, were pushed away. The now weekly demonstrations against Netanyahu’s and his government’s coronavirus policies each Saturday, after sunset, have been drawing growing numbers of angry Israelis. More than 10,000 angry Israelis joined a protest outside the 70-year-old premier’s official residence in Jerusalem, and thousands more elsewhere in the country. Amid the coronavirus crisis, he is accused of, among other things, premature easing of lockdown measures to prevent the spread of the virus and a lack of preparation for a second wave. Unemployment in the country is now above 20 percent, as the economic fall-out from the pandemic bites. Economic protesters have joined political protesters, who argue the long-time premier cannot stay in office while standing trial on charges of fraud, breach of trust and bribery. The prime minister denies all allegations. (NAN) VANGUARD Thousands of Israelis have demonstrated in several locations across the country against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's corruption trial and coronavirus pandemic crisis management. According to a police spokesman on Saturday evening, more than 7,000 people took part in a demonstration near the official residence of the 70-year-old premier in Jerusalem,… August 2, 2020 In "Foreign" Thousands of Israelis protested Saturday in Jerusalem and other cities including Tel Aviv, demanding Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's resignation over his government's handling of the coronavirus pandemic. In Jerusalem, they rallied outside Netanyahu's residence holding up signs accusing him of corruption, a reference to the premier's indictment in January for… July 26, 2020 In "Foreign" Protests in Israel over Netanyahu’s corruption December 3, 2017 In "News"