A presidential aspirant of All Progressives Congress, APC, in the 2019 elections, Chief Charles Udeogaranya, on Thursday, lent his voice to the agitation for a Nigerian President of Igbo extraction, saying it’s the turn of the South-East to produce Nigeria’s President in 2023. Udeogranya said the South-East is the safest zone in Nigeria despite not occupying any position in Nigeria’s security network, while the North that occupies all the security network positions, including the Commander in Chief, remains the worst in terms of security. According to him, because of the peaceful nature of the Igbo, there will be an end to national insecurity in the country, particularly in the North if an Igbo becomes President in 2023. Udeogaranya sympathised with the people of Southern Kaduna and the Christian minorities in the North over the killings and asked the Federal Government to stop the killings urgently. He added: “The fight against Boko Haram received its best records when a south-easterner was the Chief of Army staff and our Police were among world best when a south-easterner was the Inspector-General of Police. “All well-meaning Nigerians must support a 2023 President of Igbo ancestry, beginning with the two Nigeria main national parties, APC and PDP, nominating south-easterners as their presidential candidates. “The 2023 presidency of Igbo ancestry will heal the breaches of the past and help transform our disunity into a more united and progressive nation, where equity, robust economy, peace and progress will flourish. “Many nations have transformed their differences into great national assets and we can do the same by giving all Nigerians a sense of belonging, which will attract their commitment to the national project.” VANGUARD Former All Progressives Congress, APC presidential aspirant in 2019 and 2023 presidential hopeful, Chief Charles Udeogaranya, has cautioned Mamman Daura to not heat up the polity if the statement accredited to him on presidential zoning was true. July 29, 2020 In "Politics" By Chioma Gabriel A  presidential aspirant of All Progressives Congress in 2019 and a potential 2023 presidential candidate, Chief Charles Udeogaranya, has urged any genuine Igbo man and woman, who dreams Biafra, to perish that idea and work towards rebuilding Nigeria with 2023 presidency, He said Ndigbo are better off… July 27, 2020 In "Politics" What the Igbo want is restructuring and that is what Ekwueme wanted. But if the country will not be restructured, then let Igbo have their turn as President February 4, 2018 In "News"