The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) has called on Nigerians to embrace and patronize “Made-in-Nigeria” products post COVID-19.“In a statement made available to Vanguard, President of ICAN, Mrs. Onome Adewuyi, made the call in Lagos, stating that one of the great lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic and the attendant lockdown was the ingenuity displayed by Nigerians by producing their own face masks, water/soap dispensers, sanitizers, personal protective equipment and ventilators. “She stated: “Necessity, they say, is the mother of invention. In unison, Nigerians arose and this points to the huge human capacity and creativity that exist in this country. The spirit of ´WE CAN DO IT´ must be embraced, propagated and seriously encouraged. Adewuyi advised the government to latch in on the opportunities presented by the pandemic to drive national economic revival, adding that the effort should be reinforced through more investment in tertiary institutions to fine tune these inventions.“She said since the lockdown prevented many people and corporate entities from going about their value-creating activities, the hardest hit were the small and medium enterprises, SMEs, SMPs and other players in the informal sector.“To this end, she said that the government  must focus on how to support these entities and people who contribute the most to national economic growth, adding that most of the SMEs and SMPs might have consumed their capital in order to survive. There is need for them to be given one-year interest free loans by development institutions so that they can revive their businesses. When they start to grow and prosper, they will pay back the loans while the government will reap taxes from them.’’ Adewuyi advised the government to latch in on the opportunities presented by the pandemic to drive national economic revival, adding that the effort should be reinforced through more investment in tertiary institutions to fine-tune these inventions. August 10, 2020 In "News" Evangelist Hyacinth Ewariezi Ede, Wednesday, sent a congratulatory message to the new President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Dame (Mrs) Onome Joy Adewuyi, FCA, saying that her inauguration as the 56th President did not happen by accident. June 4, 2020 In "News" The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria, ICAN, has deployed technology to ensure accountants provide improved services to clients, even as it conferred fellowship status on qualified members. May 21, 2020 In "Business"