The Delta State Police Command have arrested a 30 years old man simply called Jomaph, who raped an 11 years old girl after a CCTV camera exposed him in Sapele, Delta State The incident happened along Oleh road in the timber town at about 7am on Wednesday morning. Vanguard learnt that the victim, (name withheld) had gone to the toilet that morning to ease herself and had returned minutes later crying that she has been raped by Jomaph, who happens to be their neighbour. A source who craved anonymity told Vanguard, that when Jomaph was accosted he denied doing it “He even swore that he had not set eyes on the girl that morning, other neighbours pleaded with him to admit if really he had done it, he vehemently refused and even went to the police to arrest the girl and her people for defamation of character, but a CCTV camera installed by a neighbour for his business, exposed him” The police was said to have invited the girl and her parents to the station “and were in the process of investigating the allegation when the neighbour came up with the CCTV footage” the source added. The Delta State Police Public Relations Officer, Onome Onowhakpoyeya, could not be reached to confirm the incident, however, a source at the Sapele Police station confirmed the arrest. “Yes, the young man was arrested after a CCTV confirmed he sneaked into the toilet, with the little girl, the matter is under investigation” Vanguard News Nigeria. A thirty-year-old man, whose name was simply given as Rowland, is now in police custody in Calabar for allegedly raping a thirteen-year-old girl. April 6, 2013 In "Crime Guard" A 27-year-old trader, Kingsley Okereke, was also arrested for defiling a minor at 27, Oilmill Street, Ebute-Meta, Lagos Island. Vanguard learned that the 10-year-old victim was raped in the suspect’s shop last week on her way to school. The act was exposed when the girl’s mother received a call from… May 31, 2016 In "Crime Alert" A high-profile sexual assault investigation in China has prompted many to come forward online with similar experiences of abuse in a country where it remains tough to get justice for such crimes. A prominent Chinese lawyer who sat on the board of telecoms equipment maker ZTE stepped down last week… April 13, 2020 In "Foreign"