A middle-aged man, Taoreed Olusola, on Monday, was shot by two yet to be identified after being attacked on a bike along the Government House road, Secretariat, Ibadan It was reliably gathered that the man was being trailed by the two men from a bank after withdrawing the sums of N150,000 and N296,000 respectively. The two suspected armed robbers, according to further investigation, followed Taoreed closely to the spot, before descending on him to dispossess him of the money. Taoreed, in the confusing situation, did not know where to turn to and swiftly passed through the Government House road and the men immediately attacked him, shot two bullets into his body and collected the money he went to collect in the bank and also rode his bike away. At the scene of the incident, bloodstains on some parts of the road, indicated that Taoreed crawled to the side of the road where he was helped by passers-by to the Intensive Care Unit of the University College Hospital, (UCH), by the officials of the Oyo State Environmental Task Force in their vehicle. When contacted on the telephone by Vanguard, the state’s Police Public Relations Officer, SP Olugbenga Fadeyi, said he was yet to confirm the incident, noting that he was at an official assignment to monitor the ongoing recruitment exercise by the police. Reports reaching Vanguard as at the time of filing this report, confirmed the victim has given up the ghost and his remains have been deposited at the Adeoyo Hospital mortuary, Ring road, Ibadan. More details in subsequent reports. Vanguard News By Adeola Badru A middle-aged man, Taoreed Olusola, on Monday, was shot by two yet to be identified after being attacked on a bike along the Government House road, Secretariat, Ibadan. Reports reaching Vanguard have confirmed that the victim has given up the ghost and his remains have been deposited… August 24, 2020 In "News" As police begin manhunt of hoodlums By Adeola Badru A middle-aged man, Taoreed Olusola, who was shot by two yet to be identified armed robbers, while returning from a commercial bank where he had gone to transact business, had finally died from the gun injuries he sustained. The ugly incident… August 25, 2020 In "Metro" Demola Akinyemi At least one person has been feared killed, while three persons were fatally wounded during the attack of armed robbers in a hotel along Stadium Road, Ilorin at the weekend. Vanguard reliably gathered that the gang of armed robbers numbering about five persons invaded the hotel and attacked… August 11, 2020 In "Crime Alert"