In what appeared like a way of appeasing the aggrieved members of the All Progressive Congress in Ekiti State, Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi on Tuesday sent a list of seven new commissioner-nominees to the State House of Assembly. The Speaker of the House of Assembly, Hon. Funminiyi Afuye read the names of the nominees on the floor of the House of this morning. Sometime early last month, Governor Fayemi had set up a peace and reconciliation committee, led by the immediate past Chairman of the party, Chief Jide Awe to reconcile aggrieved members of the party, who had been complaining of being sidelined in appointment and patronage. Today’s cabinet reshuffle could be one of the resolutions of the Awe led Committee. The Commissioner nominees are: Otunba Diran Adesua – Ekiti East Prince Olabode Adetoyi- Moba Dr. Mrs Olabimpe Aderiye-Ido Osi Dr. Oye Filani- Ikole Princess Iyabo Fakunle – Ilejemeje Alhaja Mariam Ogunlade-Emure and Mr. Akin  Omole- Oye Also nominated for board positions were: Prof Femi Akinwunmi-  SUBEB and Hon. Febisola Adewale- Local Government Service Commission Responding, Fayemi’s Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, said it was part of the strategies to fortify the cabinet and bring in new blood and ideas to develop the state. Oyebode, who spoke via telephone added that Fayemi was determined to deliver on his mandate to bring economic prosperity, by working with other progressives to give the people the required dividends of democracy. When asked who are those that will be shoved out of the cabinet as a result of the action, Oyebode said: “Let us wait and see how the screening will end before talking about who will be affected. “The essence of the cabinet reshuffle is to strengthen the government for better performance and that we shall achieve in the end”. Vanguard After months of dithering procrastination erstwhile governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi last Saturday entered the Ekiti 2018 governorship battle. Against the background of the sound defeat of four years ago, the question on many lips is ‘what magic wand has he found to charm the people of Ekiti?’ April 7, 2018 In "News" AFTER months of heightened expectations, the Ekiti State House of Assembly on Thursday, April 4 approved a list of 14 nominees sent to it by Governor Kayode Fayemi for screening and appointment as commissioners. The wait had been full of suspense, but when the list came, it surely gladdened the… April 9, 2019 In "Viewpoint" ...Apc stakeholders pass confidence vote on Governor, Excos By Rotimi Ojomoyela Ado Ekiti - Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State has again affirmed that he will not treat any party member as an enemy despite the attacks being launched against him by some leaders. This came as the Ekiti APC… July 5, 2020 In "Politics"