Reverend Fr. Ejike Mbaka has tagged as fake, the news that Former Governor of Abia state, Orji Uzo Kalu, would become the next President of Nigeria, after President Muhammadu Buhari. Mbaka, who frowned at the story spanning on the social media, said he never said Kalu would become the next Nigeria President. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:  He advised those spreading the rumour to desist, warning that they should not incur the wrath of God. Mbaka said this via the Facebook handle of the “Adoration Ministry Enugu Nigeria – AMEN” Read the statement below: “The Enemy has done this!!! The fake news making a headline that Fr.Mbaka has declared Orji Uzo Kalu the next Nigerian president is the handwork of the enemy. “Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka brings to the knowledge of the general public that he has never at any time, place or circumstance declared that Orji Uzo Kalu would be the next Nigerian president. “This report is malicious,a hard work of mischief makers and wicked individuals who are on demonic and satanic assignments to damage his reputation. Therefore, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka is cautioning those spreading the “ fake news” in his name against attracting the wrath of God upon themselves and their families.”  Vanguard IT is a fact that since former governor of Abia State and now senator representing Abia Central district, Theodore Orji (Ochendo), parted ways with his predecessor, Chief Orji Uzo Kalu, there has been no love lost between them. Prior to that, Kalu the godfather, had lorded it over Orji, the… July 23, 2015 In "Viewpoint" In the beginning... It is often said that a long story is not told at benediction. However, that saying can no longer hold true with the way things are going in the Catholic Church nowadays. December 8, 2018 In "News" Radical Catholic priest, Reverend Father Ejike Camillus Mbaka, who has been in the eye of the storm days after he reportedly passed controversial political-cum-prophetic judgements on President Muhammadu Buhari; the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar and his running mate, Peter Obi, may have been compelled by the… December 8, 2018 In "News"