FORMER Senator representing Kaduna Central senatorial district, Mr. Shehu Sani, Saturday, likened the political climate in Edo State ahead of the governorship election in the state to that of Syria. Sani, who describes himself as a human rights activist and pan-africanist also expressed concerns that terror gangs in countries like Saudi, Turkey amongst others, now operate in Edo states. In a series of tweets on his twitter handle @ShehuSani, will speaking on the supposed renovation of the Edo State House of Assembly building in relation to a previous incident in the state during the Adams Oshiomhole administration, said: “It was the carpenter who taught the apprentice how to remove roof and ceiling during raining season.” He also took a swipe at major players of political happenings in the state and likened them to major political actors in the world including the incumbent governor, Godwin Obaseki who he described as “Assad.” Part of his tweets read: “Edo has become Syria; Obaseki is Assad, Wike is Putin, Baba is Trump, Jagaban is Nathanyahu, with Saudi, Turkey, Iran and terror groups all in there. Osho is Al Bagdadhi.” Vanguard News Nigeria The Chairman of the APC Electoral Panel that superintended over the party’s just concluded primaries in Kaduna State,  Mr.  Matthew Iduoriyekemwen has accused Senator Shehu Sani of offering the committee N10 million bribe  to get an affirmation for his controversial  automatic ticket. October 13, 2018 In "News" Death and the condolence visits that follow are remarkable opportunities for inward appraisal and sometimes rapprochement. However, in these climes, death and the sympathy visit that follow could also lead to the eruption of hitherto political animosities. The political burst up between Governor Umar Ganduje and his one-time political leader,… May 28, 2016 In "News" AS the senator representing Kaduna Central, Shehu Sani, failed to get the re-nomination ticket of the All Progressives Congress last week, not a few looked for blood in the hands of Governor Nasir El-Rufai. His pitchfork is never far from him. October 26, 2018 In "Converstion with Azu"