GOVERNORSHIP candidate of the PDP in Ondo State, Mr Eyitayo Jegede, has caved in on his choice of a running mate following pressure from leaders of the party. He has agreed to pick his running mate from the oil-rich Ilaje council area of the state. The window to substitute a candidate given by INEC will lapse next Tuesday, August 18. Vanguard gathered that after weeks of intense consultation and horse-trading, the candidate bowed to pressure and agreed to drop Ikengbonu Gboluga for political reasons. It was also gathered that Jegede has submitted the names of Messrs Banji Okunomo and Sola Ebiseni to the leaders to make a choice. When contacted, one of Jegede’s aides said: “We are mindful of the deadline for substitution which is August 18. I want to assure you the running mate to our principal would be unveiled this weekend.” Also, the PDP Publicity Secretary, Kennedy Peretei told Vanguard that the party was mindful of the deadline given by INEC and would resolve the issue of the running mate this weekend. Jegede assures Ondo youth of massive employment Meanwhile, the PDP candidate has assured that if elected as governor, massive youth employment will be one of his top priorities.
Jegede, in a statement by his media aide, Mr Samuel Fasua, said: “We know that this is not the best of time for our youths in Ondo State, many who particularly face the untold hardship of the want of what to do. “It is also made worse by the grim fact that in most homes, long-suffering parents who are stultifying under the present economic hardship also carry the additional burden of fending for their jobless graduate children. Vanguard News Nigeria. Submits fresh names to party elders, Okunomo, Ebiseni We are still consulting — Jegede aides We will resolve all issues this weekend — Party publicity secretary Dayo Johnson - Akure Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ondo state Eyitayo Jegede has caved in on his choice of deputy governor… August 13, 2020 In "News" ...Nobody has been picked-- PDP ...we're watching the drama- Co- contestants By Dayo Johnson THERE is confusion in the camp of the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ondo State, Eyitayo Jegede over the rejection of his choice for deputy by leaders of the party in the state.… July 30, 2020 In "Politics" THE Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday picked their deputy governorship candidates ahead of the November 26 election. October 13, 2016 In "Politics"