Residence of Architect John Emejulu, the man who demolished about one-kilometre perimeter fence of Akanu Ibiam International Airport Enugu, has been pulled down by the Enugu Capital Territory Development Authority, ECTDA. The private residence is situated along Eziokwe street, off Nike Lake road, Trans Ekulu, Enugu. At the site to supervise the demolition was the Chairman of ECTDA, Dr Josef Onoh, who told Vanguard that his agency obtained court order to demolish the duplex. Onoh said the property stood on waterway and needed to give way. He denies that the action was in reprisal to Emejulu’s demolition of the airport fence being constructed as part of the airport rehabilitation. Emejulu had on Wednesday executed an order of the court at the disputed airport land to take back his 400 plots he said he bought from Nike Community in 2008. Minister for Aviation, Hadi Sirika who visited the airport demolition on Thursday, has threatened to deal with Emejulu for destroying Federation government asset. Emejulu is yet to be found after the demolition of the airport perimeter fence. Vanguard News Nigeria. THE family of former civilian governor of old Anambra State, late Chief Christian Onoh, has dragged Enugu State government before the state High Court claiming N10 million damages on their property demolished in Enugu. June 24, 2013 In "News" By Lawani Mikairu The federal government yesterday said it will bring the full weight of the law on Mr John Emejulu who wilfully destroyed the concrete perimeter fence, covering about 2km, being erected at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. The fence is one of the structures undergoing rehabilitation at… August 13, 2020 In "News" By Dennis Agbo As the August 31st  date for reopening of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport draws nearer, the Enugu Capital Territory Development Authority, ECTDA, has accused the Nigeria Railway Corporation, NRC, of obstructing completion of the ongoing rehabilitation of the airport to derail the process for resumption of flights.… August 12, 2020 In "South East Voice"