Investors continued to react to better than expected half year, HI’20, corporate earnings as renewed interest in Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GTB), Stanbic IBTC and   Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc boost equities’ performance last week. Consequently, investors gained N181.6 billion as the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, market capitalisation rose to N13.1trillion from N12.9 trillion at the beginning of the week while Year-to-Date, YtD, loss moderated to -6.7 percent. In the same vein, the NSE All Share Index, another performance indicator, closed the week 1.4 percent higher at 25,041.89 points from 24,766.12 points. However, reacting to the market positive development, analysts at Cordros Research said:   “Our view continues to favour cautious trading as risks remain on the horizon due to a combination of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in Nigeria and weak economic conditions. Thus, we continue to advise investors to seek trading opportunities in only fundamentally justified stocks.” In similar manner, analysts at Afrinvest Research said: “. In the coming week, we anticipate a mixed performance as investors react to more corporate earnings releases. However, we expect to see some profit-taking activities given the bullish performance last week. Meanwhile, analysis of trading last week showed that activity level strengthened as average volume and value rose 51.5 percent and 21.4 percent to 213.0million units and N2.2billion respectively supported by the three trading sessions from last week. Specifically, GTBank (+8.2 percent), Stanbic (+10.0 percent), Seplat (+12.8 percent) and Zenith Bank (3.7 percent) were the primary drivers of the overall market’s gain. Performance across sectors was broadly positive with the Banking (4.9 percent), Oil & Gas (4.8 percent), Consumer Goods (0.7 percent), and Industrial Goods (0.1 percent) indices recordings gains. The Insurance (-0.3%) index was the sole loser. Vanguard TEN companies, led by Dangote Cement Plc, account for 78.8 percent of the market capitalisation of the equities listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, as at the end of trading in the month of January, 2020. February 17, 2020 In "Business" THE Nigerian capital market last year experienced few new issues apparently for the downturn in economic activity which affected quoted companies on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, from raising fresh capital to meeting challenging needs. January 30, 2017 In "Business" MIXED reactions by investors are expected to typify the equity market on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, this week amid renewed profit taking activities which led to investors losing N61 billion in five trading days last week. August 6, 2018 In "Finance"