The Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, has maintained that the recently amended sixth edition of the Nigerian Broadcasting Code by the National Broadcasting Commission was in the best interest of the country. The Minister made the position known on Monday at the NBC’s 28th anniversary and sixth annual lecture held in Abuja. Recall that the amendment  has drawn criticism from stakeholders in the industry, particularly for raising the fine for hate speech from N500,000 to N5m.e It will also be recalled that the chairman of the commission’s board, Ikra Bilbis, denied knowledge of the new Code, and accused the Minister to have singlehandedly amended the Code, and indicated his support for further review to accommodate areas of concerns raised by stakeholders. According to the Minister, “government’s expectation was that the ongoing reforms, including the amendment of the code, would revolutionise the nation’s broadcasting industry. “The Federal Executive Council, led by the President Muhammadu Buhari supported the amendments after a review of the 2019 general elections. “The provision was not new in Nigeria, broadcasting exclusivity was disallowed at a certain time in the history of the nation’s broadcasting. “Sublicensing and rights sharing creates opportunities for local operators to also gain traction and revenue for their services,” Mohammed explained. With the new amendment, he assured that the section of the Code prohibiting backlog of advertising debts would promote sustainability, whereas, the law on the registration of web broadcasting would regulate negative foreign broadcasts that could affect the country negatively. Vanguard News Nigeria. THE Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, yesterday, unveiled the reviewed Nigeria Broadcasting Code which contains the Antitrust provision aimed at boosting local content and encouraging the growth of the local industry, among other provisions. August 5, 2020 In "News" By Okoh Aihe Understandably the Nigerian government last week hailed media entrepreneur and emerging movie maker, Mo Abudu, for notching up a deal with global streaming outfit, Netflix, for on-screen adaptation of Wole Soyinka’s ‘Death and The King’s Horseman’ and Lola Shoneyin’s ‘The Secret Lives of Baba Segi’s Wives’. The… June 17, 2020 In "Technology" The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has reaffirmed government's decision that any programme meant for Nigerians must be produced in Nigeria, saying he was not appointed Minister to develop the economy of other countries at the expense of the Nigerian economy. July 19, 2017 In "News"