The Director-General of the National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Olusegun Runsewe has commended the governments of Kogi, Plateau, Gombe, and Abia states for donating office accommodations to the Council. Runsewe who made this commendation in Abuja stated that the donation of office accommodations is an indication of the commitment of the state governments to the development of the Culture Sector in Nigeria. “With the presence of the council’s offices in these states,” Runsewe said, “the opportunity has been opened for NCAC to directly network with the state governments and drive the process of development of Arts and Culture in the states. He stressed the need for the National Council for Arts and Culture to work with the state governments for the exploration and development of the vast potentials in the Culture Sector. The NCAC boss cited the case of Kogi State, the confluence of River Niger and Benue and the state with the first prison, first primary school, the first capital of Nigeria from where Lord Lugard amalgamated the North and Southern Nigeria to illustrate the rich cultural history of tourism potentials of Nigeria. The D.G said that if fully developed, the potentials in Kogi State could make it become the tourism nerve-center of Nigeria. On Plateau State, the NCAC DG pointed out that the temperate climate of the area has continued to be a source of attraction to tourists, especially foreigners for a long time. “Other notable attractions in Plateau State include the various rock formations, Kurra-falls, Sherri-hills, the serenity of the state and the rich cultural festivals and dances of the people,” he said. The NCAC D.G noted that there is no state of the country without a unique Arts and Cultural manifestations. He said that if the various states of the federation can work with the Council, identify and develop those cultural resources for which they have an advantage, the sector would not only develop rapidly, it will become a major pillar of the nation’s economy. Vanguard General, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe has assured that Nigerian traditional rulers as custodians of Nigerian tradition, history and culture will play prominent role in the strategic for the revival of Nigerian culture under his watch. June 16, 2017 In "Travel & Tourism" The National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (NANTAP) has come out in support of Otunba Segun Runsewe, Director-General, National Council for Arts and Culture and Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu. March 2, 2020 In "The Arts" ...Vow to Reclaim NCAC land in Abuja By Tordue Salem, Abuja The House of Representatives yesterday promised to allocate adequate funding for the rapid development of the Culture and Tourism sector. The Committee said the sector was strategic for the growth of the economy and national development. The Chairman of… October 31, 2019 In "News"