Ahmed Khanou, the President of the Confederation of Africa Volleyball (CAVB) and Chairman of Beach Volleyball Commission, says they are not expecting all the participating countries in the Group C of the second phase of the Beach Volleyball Olympics qualifiers in Nigeria due the health emergency situation in the country. Khanou told newsmen on Thursday in Abuja that only Zambia arrived for the competition. “We have two withdrawals from the indication; we are not expecting all the countries to be around because of the health emergency on ground. “Whatever that will happen the competition will hold, it will then depend on the number of countries that are available. “Zambian team just arrived, we are still expecting other teams to arrive. “We are expecting five countries in Abuja, five female teams to be competing for two slots in the final – Nigeria, Zambia, Kenya, Cape Verde and the Democratic Republic of Congo,” he said. Khanou said that the continental cup is actually the pathway of qualification to the Tokyo 2020 Olympics games. “There are three phases to this competition, the CAVB registered a total number of 36 countries. “The zonal phase ended in January and March is the second phase which is definitely the qualifications to the finals,” he said. The News Agency reports (NAN) that the beach volleyball qualifying tournament will take place from Wednesday to Sunday at the Jabi Lake Beach in Abuja. (NAN) VANGUARD Gambia’s senior female volleyball team on Thursday defeated their counterparts from Cote d’Ivoire 2-0 in a ranking match at the African Nations Beach Volleyball Senior Men and Women Championships in Abuja. April 25, 2019 In "Sports" The Nigeria Volleyball Federation (NVBF) on Monday said plans were underway to host the Zone Three Club Championship and U-19 Men’s African Nations Cup in Abuja. January 22, 2018 In "News" The President of Nigeria Volleyball Federation, Engineer Musa Nimrod said the country will take part at the Snow Volleyball World Tour in Bariloche, Rio Negro July 31, 2019 In "News"