As part of precautionary measures to stop the spread of Coronavirus pandemic COVID-19, Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has ordered the closure of all public and private schools from Monday, 23rd March 2020. Sanwo-Olu gave the directive, in a statement, released late Wednesday evening, through the state’s Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folashade Adefisayo. The statement read: “The move becomes necessary to prevent our children and their teachers from getting more vulnerable to the pandemic. “It is important for parents to ensure that their children practise ‘social distancing’ while at home, wash their hands regularly or use hand sanitizers and observe high standards of personal hygiene. “Children should be encouraged to remain at home. “The closure is not intended to create panic but to arrest the spread of the disease, which has become a global threat. “The Incident Command Centre, headed by the Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who is the Incident Commander, will continue to trace all contacts of the identified cases and encourage anyone who has information about suspected cases to report to the nearest hospital or call the emergency telephone numbers 08023169485, 08033565529, 08052817243 and 08023401214.” Vanguard Gov. Babajide Sanwo-olu of Lagos State has called on community, religious and traditional leaders as well as associations and educationists to cooperate with his administration in spreading information essential for containment of coronavirus. The governor made the call on Tuesday at a Stakeholders’ Forum on the Management and Control of… March 3, 2020 In "Health" In view of the ravaging coronavirus pandemic, Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday paid unscheduled visit to the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos to assess the level of screening of inbound passengers. March 17, 2020 In "News" By Ebunoluwa Sessou Lagos State House of Assembly has urged Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of the state to ensure proper sensitization of the residents of the state about the dreaded Coronavirus. The issue was raised under Matter of Urgent Public Importance by Mr. Akeem Shokunle representing Oshodi/Isolo 1 during plenary yesterday… March 2, 2020 In "News"