A Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) governorship aspirant in Ondo State in the forthcoming election in the state, Mr. Banji Okunomo, has canvassed for a single term for governors and all political office holders, saying that four years should be enough for them to perform. Okunomo stated this in Ibadan at the weekend, while addressing newsmen on his ambition to contest the forthcoming governorship election in the state. He opined that second term gives room for corruption and non-performance, calling for a review of the nation’s constitution to accommodate single term for governors and other elected positions. The Ondo gubernatorial aspirant said single term for the governors and others would fastrack democratic development and bring desired results thereby making the populace to partake in dividends of democracy. He noted that the constitution shouldn’t give non-performing governors the latitude of second term, adding that: “I’m saying it that we should be very careful with the issue of second term in the affairs of governance.” The PDP aspirant implored the electorate to take destiny in their hands by ensuring that they elected credible individuals that could provide good governance rather than those that would not care for their welfare. On his political ambition, Okunomo said welfarism and economic development of Ondo State would be his priority if he emerged as the PDP candidate and won the governorship election. He said the resources of the state would be channelled towards what would improve the living standard on son and daughters of the state. According to him, Ondo State is blessed with bitumen and other resources, pointing out that these would be tapped to industrialise the state, thereby generating employment opportunities for the youths and other unemployed indigenes of the state. The aspirant, however, expressed optimism that he would emerge as the candidate of PDP during the party’s primary that would come up in May, claiming that he has the support of the majority in the party. VANGUARD The immediate past Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice of Ondo state, Eyitayo Jegede, SAN, has been declared the winner of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, governorship primary election in the state. August 22, 2016 In "News" THE Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday picked their deputy governorship candidates ahead of the November 26 election. October 13, 2016 In "Politics" FRESH facts emerged yesterday on why the 22 chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State were suspended for anti-party activities few days after the party lost the governorship election. December 1, 2016 In "News"