Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, has described movement restriction imposed on two states of the federation by President Muhammadu Buhari as “unconstitutional and a political virus for the future.” Soyinka said this in a statement issued on Monday and titled: “Between COVID-19 and constitutional encroachment.” The statement, which he signed off as “Wole Soyinka from Self-Quarantine, ” read: “Constitutional lawyers and our elected representatives should kindly step into this and educate us, mere lay minds. The worst development I can conceive of us is to have a situation where rational measures for the containment of the coronavirus pandemic are rejected on account of their questionable genesis. “This is a time for unity of purpose, not nitpicking dissensions. So, before this becomes a habit, a question: does President Buhari have the powers to close down state borders? We want clear answers. “We are not in a war emergency. Appropriately focussed on measures for the saving lives, and committed to making sacrifices for the preservation of our communities, we should nonetheless remain alert to any encroachment on constitutionally demarcated powers. “We need to exercise collective vigilance, and not compromise the future by submitting to interventions that are not backed by law and constitution. “A President who has been conspicuously AWOL, the Rip van Winkle of Nigerian history, is now alleged to have woken up after a prolonged siesta, and begun to issue orders. “Who actually instigates these orders anyway? From where do they really emerge? What happens when the orders conflict with state measures, the product of a systematic containment strategy – `including even trial-and-error and hiccups – undertaken without let or leave of the centre. “So far, the anti-COVID-19 measures have proceeded along the rails of decentralised thinking, multilateral collaboration and technical exchanges between states. “The centre is obviously part of the entire process, and one expects this to be the norm, even without the epidemic’s frontal assault on the Presidency itself. “Indeed, the Centre is expected to drive the overall effort, but in collaboration, with extraordinary budgeting and refurbishing of facilities. The universal imperative and urgency of this affliction should not become an opportunistic launch pad for a sneak recentralisation no matter how seemingly insignificant its appearance. “I urge governors and legislators to be especially watchful. No epidemic is ever cured with constitutional piracy. It only lays down new political viruses for the future.” President Buhari had on Sunday directed the cessation of all movements in Lagos, Ogun, and Abuja for an initial period of 14 days in a bid to check the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country.  Vanguard    WOLE SOYINKA knows that, in linguistics, there is something called register. Yet, while addressing students at a recent Lagos gathering, the Nobel laureate employed an elevated language suitable for addressing an international literary convention. Why? The answer must be found in the acute dilemma Soyinka found himself in. This author… February 15, 2015 In "News" Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka has said that: 'I Wole Soyinka will not be voting for either the two so called contesting parties. I find both of them worthy of absolute rejection.' January 31, 2019 In "News" Nobel laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, has made good his promise to throw away his U.S residency green card and leave the United States, if Donald Trump won the presidential election. December 2, 2016 In "News"