 The Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA) held on Saturday 14 March at the prestigious Eko Convention Centre. The award, now in its 7th edition, was headline-sponsored by number one premium malt drink; Amstel Malta. As usual, the awards delivered all the pomp and glamour it is recognized for, leaving an indelible mark on the entertainment scene and audiences across Africa, and retaining its position as the most anticipated film and television awards in Africa. Leading up to the awards, headline sponsor, Amstel Malta, delivered on its promise of giving fans an exclusive, front-row action to the AMVCAs. The brand kicked off in-store activations across major shopping outlets, surprising shoppers with the most coveted front-row tickets to the AMVCAs while the winner of the Fan Reporter online competition got exclusive front-row and back-stage access along with an incredible opportunity to interact with celebrities at the awards. There were more exciting pre-awards activities lined up, next on the list being a sponsored segment hosted by Dakore Egbuson on ‘The Spot’ – a light-hearted, bare-all interview program – where movie fans connected to their favorite AMVCA nominated actors and actresses, Popular radio personality, Gbemi Olateru-Olagbegi (Gbemi O-O) was the host in yet another fun pre-award activation; fans who were able to guess the titles of the AMVCA-nominated movie soundtracks and scenes played on radio, won branded gifts. Fans were also able to follow in-the-moment, front-row action, live from the AMVCAs on Gbemi O-O’s twitter handle. In a non-film prize category, and as voted for by fans, Amstel Malta rewarded the best dressed of the night, both male and female. ‘Mike Edwards’ and ‘Mercy Eke, were voted winners and they both took home shopping vouchers worth N500,000 with a Nigerian designer of their choice. Speaking at the event Aminah Jagun, Senior Brand Manager, Amstel Malta, said; “Just as the AMVCA has, over the years, stayed true to its promise to support and celebrate outstanding achievements in Film and Television in Nollywood, Amstel Malta has also been a principal supporter for the growth of cinema and Theatre Arts. Our goal this year was to give fans an exclusive, front-row action to the awards, and we were able to deliver that through all our activities in support of the awards. Gifts were won, all-access tickets were given, and we connected fans with their favorite stars. We hope to do more in the coming years as Nollywood continues to expand globally,”. Amstel Malta is the headline sponsor of the biggest film award show to come out of Nigeria; the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA). With its reach spanning across Africa, the AMVCA has created a phenomenal and impactful platform for the celebration of icons in the film and television industry, up and coming industry stars as well as the fans, who keep the industry alive.  About Red Media Africa Red Media Africa (www.redmediaafrica.com) is the PR & Empowerment Marketing division under the parent brand, RED. It focuses on using inspiration, empowerment, and action to help brands and organizations connect with their audiences, enhance their bottom-lines, and lead in their industries. It has 6 major practice areas: Corporate Practice, Technology Practice, SME Practice, Governance Practice, Faith Practice, and the International Practice – with work for brands across Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, and South Africa. It has been recognized with multiple local and international awards including the Gold SABRE Awards for PR Campaigns and the Young Lions PR competition for the next generation of creatives.  Nigeria’s leading low-sugar malt brand and official sponsor of the Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards (AMVCA), Amstel Malta, is set to reward fifteen Theatre Arts students across the country for their outstanding academic excellence with an all-expense paid trip to the AMVCAs, makeover sessions and an exclusive date with Genevieve… March 4, 2015 In "News" Africa Magic, in association with MultiChoice Nigeria, today announced that entries are now being accepted for the seventh edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA). Entries open Wednesday, 13 November and close Friday, 13 December 2019. November 13, 2019 In "Entertainment" Africa Magic will announce nominees in all 28 categories in the 7th Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA) on Thursday, 6 February 2020. DStv and GOtv viewers should tune in 9 pm WAT to watch the broadcast LIVE on all Africa Magic channels. January 29, 2020 In "News"