The World Health Organisation (WHO) on Tuesday urged Asia-Pacific countries to brace up for a long-term battle against the coronavirus and stressed the need for nations not to let their guard down even if cases taper off. “This is a pandemic unlike the world has ever seen, and it has changed our system and put a strain on people’s lives in an unprecedented way,” said Takeshi Kasai, WHO regional director for the Western Pacific region. “Let me be clear – the epidemic is far from over in Asia and the Pacific. “This is going to be a long-term battle and we cannot let down our guard,” he told an online press conference. Kasai said there are currently 50 candidate vaccines against Covid-19, with several already undergoing clinical trials He added that the WHO is holding trials to test the safety and effectiveness of treatment protocols, and urged countries to take part in the studies to help produce output that can be analysed. While the research was moving at “remarkable speed,” Kasai said countries needed to practice “common tactics” of finding, isolating, and testing cases early as well as putting physical distance in communities to help stop or slow down the transmission in the meantime. “These measures can buy us valuable time to prepare for large-scale community transmission,” he said. “We still don’t know how long this Covid-19 fight will continue. “There are people around the world working 24 hours, 7 days, they’re doing their best to fight Covid. But it’s unlikely this virus will disappear next week or even next month,” Kasai added. Vanguard The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has joined the global battle to save mankind as its president, Amaju Pinnick yesterday released a video in which he told Nigerians and followers of football to brace up against the Covid-19 pandemic. In the video, Pinnick, who spoke on behalf of the football governing… March 29, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" South Africa has announced its first deaths from Coronavirus infection, and said cases there have passed the 1,000 mark. "This morning, we South Africans wake up with sad news that we now have our first deaths resulting from COVID-19," the health ministry said on Friday. Both deaths took place in… March 27, 2020 In "Foreign" COVID-19; The Delta House of Assembly, on Tuesday, urged Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa to direct the state Ministry of Health and other relevant agencies to intensify sensitisation campaign on Coronavirus in all parts of the state. The Assembly made the call in a resolution passed during plenary in Asaba. The resolution… March 17, 2020 In "News"