Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde has announced that the confirmation test for the suspected case of coronavirus at Bodija area of Ibadan has come out positive. Seyi Makinde, in a short thread on Twitter, revealed that the result was released at 17:35 PM of March 21, 2020. Oyo State Public Health Officials are collaborating with the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan’s team on the case. “The COVID-19 confirmation test for the suspected case at Bodija has come back POSITIVE. The result was released at 17:35 PM of March 21, 2020. Oyo State Public Health Officials are collaborating with the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan’s team on the case. “A follow up on the Ekiti COVID-19 case revealed that the deceased was picked up directly from Lagos Airport to a private apartment in Ona Ara Local Government Area. “The Health Authorities have contacted the family concerned and the community has been alerted for intensified contact tracing and self-isolation of identified close contacts. The information given that he stayed in some hotels in Ibadan has been found to be false. “Another returnee from Texas, USA, has also been identified at Oluyole Local Government Area. She has been kept in self-isolation with close monitoring by the State Epidemiological Team. “All recent returnees are again urged to identify themselves to Ministry Officials and self-isolate for 14 days. “We have released funds for: a. Activation of Emergency Operation Centre at the Ministry of Health. b. Establishment of Diagnostic Centre for screening of Coronavirus and other related infectious diseases to be stationed at the UCH, Ibadan. “Equipping of the newly designated Oyo State Infectious Disease Centre at Olodo that has the capacity for over 100 cases. “Oyo State Ministry of Health Helplines: 08038210122/ 08023229267/ 08073431342,” Makinde wrote.  1) The COVID-19 confirmation test for the suspected case at Bodija has come back POSITIVE. The result was released at 17:35 PM of March 21, 2020. Oyo State Public Health Officials are collaborating with the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan’s team on the case. — Seyi Makinde (@seyiamakinde) March 21, 2020  Vanguard Prof. Akin Abayomi, Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Tuesday disclosed that the third reported coronavirus case in the state, came through the British Airways. March 17, 2020 In "News" Nigeria has on Friday, recorded its first case of Coronavirus after the outbreak of the disease in China. Coronavirus which has struck nineteen European countries, (Italy, Germany, France, Spain, SWITZERLAND, Britain Russia, Australia,  CROATIA, Greece, Finland, Sweden, BELGIUM, DENMARK, GEORGIA, NORTH MACEDONIA, NORWAY, and ROMANIA), has been confirmed to have… February 28, 2020 In "Health" Sets up task force on Coronavirus in Ibadan today By Adeola Badru Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has stated that he took responsibility for whatever lapses in judgement occasioned by the conduct of the Southwest Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rally in Ibadan. The governor's statement followed series of backlashes… March 20, 2020 In "News"