Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission, yesterday, summoned Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II must appear before it over fresh allegation of land racketeering. Addressing journalists, Chairman of the commission, Muhuyi Rimingado, said the commission was empowered to open fresh investigation on anybody found wanting while disclosing that the Emir had a case to answer. Muhuyi informed that Emir Sanusi was being invited to clear his name of an allegation of illegal sale of government property, noting that the latest allegation was not related to the previous investigation. According to him: “I wish to categorically state that, this commission is entering a new investigation brought forward by a whistleblower on 29th December 2019 and is not related to an earlier investigation which is still the subject matter of the civil suit. Preliminary findings suggest that, a company, Country Wide House Ltd. served as a corporate vehicle to allegedly launder the sum of over N2 billion being proceeds of several hectares of land in Darmanawa phase I and II and Bubbugaji, under the former right of occupancy CON-RESS 2016-503 illegally sold to Messer family home fund limited at the alleged instance of His Highness the Emir of Kano. The investigation further reveals that some of the proceeds of the sales remitted to the Emirate Council’s bank account can be traced to the companies of interest to His Highness.” Vanguard The Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission has invited the Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammad Sanusi II, a fresh allegation of N2.2 billion land scam The first class traditional ruler is expected to appeat before the commission on Thursday to answer some questions over alleged violation of the provisions… March 5, 2020 In "News" Mr Muhuyi Magaji, the Chairman, Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission, says the agency has achieved 80 per cent success into the investigation of alleged misapplication of N6 billion by the Kano Emirate Council. May 15, 2017 In "News" The Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-corruption Commission has vowed to continue with its investigation on the alleged misappropriation of N3.4 billion by the Kano Emirate Council. June 10, 2019 In "Crime Alert"