Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, on Friday, barred social, political, religious and family gatherings of more than 20 persons as part of efforts to check the spread of coronavirus. The governor, who announced that “all public and private schools and institutions in Ekiti State are to close down from Monday, March 23”, also directed that “all non-essential workers in private and public sectors are encouraged to work from home from Monday, March 23”. Fayemi, in a statewide broadcast in Ado Ekiti, said, “Now that we are aware of its presence in our midst, we must leave no stone unturned to make Ekiti State coronavirus (COVID-19) free. We must combat and curtail its spread by ensuring our people are actively involved in the government’s efforts to fight this global pandemic. While the world frantically searches for a cure, our best and the only defense is prevention.” Fayemi added, “All public gatherings of more than 20 persons are prohibited from today, Friday, March 20. These include religious gatherings like worship and prayer services, night vigils, house fellowships, and Asalatu; social gatherings like burials, weddings, family meetings and parties of any kind; political gatherings, like rallies, congresses, ward meetings; night clubs, bars, beer joints, and NYSC CDS meetings among others.” He listed the non-essential workers in private and public sectors who should work from home to include civil and public servants from level 12 and below; except essential services like health workers, caregivers, social welfare officers, fire service officers, emergency response officers, and security guards/watchmen in public institutions. vanguard The Nigeria Governors‘ Forum (NGF) has set up a seven-member sub-committee to review the trend of the Coronavirus and global failing in petroleum price, as well advice State governments on required measures to address the challenges on the economy. The chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Gov. Kayode Fayemi of… March 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, has confirmed that a 38-year-old male has tested positive for coronavirus in the state. The Ekiti State Taskforce on Covid-19, headed by His Excellency Dr John Kayode Fayemi, can confirm that we have recorded an incidence of a Nigerian male, 38 years old, of Ekiti… March 18, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Dr Kayode Fayemi, out-going governor of Ekiti State, yesterday reiterated that he would not challenge the result of last Saturday's governorship election in the state because he is "not desperate to remain in office," even as commendations poured in on him from far and wide yesterday. June 24, 2014 In "Ekiti Elections"