The head of the Aborigine Ogboni worldwide, Oba Abdul Olakisan Adetoyese has disclosed his readiness to find solution to coronavirus by appeasing the gods. He added that offering propitiation to cleanse the land would eliminate the pandemic, which has defied scientific solution. In a press statement signed by the spiritual leader of the Ogboni cult and made available to journalists in Osogbo on Friday, he said the disease was not ordinary and required spiritual solution. He said, “I am ready to appease  the gods through rituals in some selected cities within the South West region as a means of solving the epidemic. “The disease was not an ordinary one and it demands spiritual solution to send it packing. Such terrible epidemic in the past had always been tackled through spiritual means even when there was no medical or scientific know-how. “I, therefore offer to embark on spiritual activities to curb the disease in the country, I am also willing to meet with some selected Governors in the South West on ways to avert the spread of the disease”. He called on traditional rulers and other religious leaders especially Muslims and Christians to also embark on spiritual activities to curb the menace of Coronavirus ravaging the entire world. Vanguard By Shina Abubakar - Osogbo The head of the Aborigine Ogboni worldwide, Oba Abdul Olakisan Adetoyese has disclosed his readiness to find a solution to coronavirus by appeasing the gods. He added that offering propitiation to cleanse the land would eliminate the pandemic, which has defied scientific solution. In a… March 20, 2020 In "News" The Catholic Church on Friday granted forgiveness -- under certain conditions -- for the sins of the faithful struck by the novel coronavirus. A decree published by the Vatican also covers healthcare workers and those who pray for their wellbeing. Relatives who care for their sick family members may also… March 20, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Federal High Court, Abuja, on Friday, rejected an application to compel the Federal Government to totally bar entry from the United States, Iran, and China into the country because of Coronavirus. Justice Inyang Ekwo, who refused the ex parte motion filed by an Abuja-based lawyer, Johnmary Jideobi, ordered the… March 20, 2020 In "News"