The management of the Bayero University Kano has dismissed rumors doing the round that cases of Corona Virus have been identified in the university saying it is fake news. This is contained in a statement from the university management on Sunday signed by Lamara Garba the Secretary, Information & Publication of the university on behalf of the Registrar. The statement reads in full: “The attention of the Management of Bayero University, Kano has been drawn to a fake news item making the rounds about the reported case of Corona Virus in the University. “We wish to state unequivocally clear that, there has never been a case of Coronavirus in the University whatsoever. For the avoidance of doubt, the University was shut down since Friday, 20th March 2020 in line with the directives by the Federal Ministry of Education and all students have already vacated the hostel of residence. “We, therefore, appeal to members of the general public to kindly disregard the purported news in respect of the emergence of Corona Virus in Bayero University and should consider such information as fake, unfounded and maliciously concocted. “We are particularly disturbed that some heartless individuals will fabricate fake news using a screen short of a reputable news organization knowing that it will cause panic not only within the University but within the Kano environment and beyond. “The Management had taken all necessary measures to protect all members of the University community (staff and students) from the dreaded COVID19; Bayero University is safe and free from the virus.” VANGUARD By Bashir Bello The authorities of the Bayero University, Kano has shut down the institution's campus as part of measure to curtail the spread of the Covid-19. The management in a statement through it Secretary, Information and Publication, Lamara Garba said the health and well-being of it students and staff… March 20, 2020 In "Education" With the declaration of the Coronavirus outbreak as a global pandemic by World health Organisation and the confirmation of COVID-19 cases in Lagos, Ogun and Neighboring Cameroon, Cross River State has doubled its effort to safe guard its citizens and residents while pushing strong messages about the virus to all… March 12, 2020 In "News" Director General of the Nigeria Center for Disease Control, NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, has gone into self-isolation for 14 days. March 4, 2020 In "News"