THE decision of Ondo State government to share abandoned corpses to different locations in the state for mass burial has sparked off crisis. Over 110 unknown corpses taken to lkare-Akoko in Akoko North-East Area of the state have been rejected by the community. Speaking with Sunday Vanguard, the Chief Medical Director, State Specialist Hospital, Ikare, Dr Ayodele Ogunlade, said the state government considered it necessary to share the abandoned corpses to different locations in the state for mass burial. Ogunlade said the abandoned corpses had been deposited at the mortuary of the hospital for a long time. “Ore, Akure and Ikare were designated for the mass burial of the abandoned corpses”, he added. The CMD noted that the mass burial had no health implication as all the corpses had been treated with necessary chemicals. But the residents of the community rejected the relocation of the corpses to their area without prior consent from community leaders and the local government authorities. It was learnt that the corpses were brought to the town by health officials from different parts of the state. An eyewitness account said “ the corpses were imported to the town with three official ambulances of the state government from General Hospital, Iwaro Oka, State Specialist Hospital, Owo and State Specialist Hospital, Ikare Akoko”. The Caretaker Chairman of Akoko North East local government, Hon Asimi Omojola, said officials of the Ondo State Health Management Board (HMB) contacted him on behalf of government to provide land for the burial of the unknown bodies. “I have ordered the return of the corpses to where they brought them from, aside from the fact that it is against the norms of Ikare land”, Omojola stated. The two traditional rulers of the town, Oba Akadiri Saliu-Momoh, Olukare of Ikareland and Oba Kolapo Adegbite-Adedoyin, Owa-Ale of Ikareland, described the situation as strange and caught them unawares. Vanguard The setting was Federal High Court, Yenagoa, Bayelsa state. The date was June 22, 2016. The court was already in session as the trial judge, Justice Ajiya Nganjiwa, asked the court registrar to call the next case. The registrar rose up and said “suit number FHC/YNG/C8/51/2016 between the Federal Medical… July 9, 2016 In "News" Exactly 49 days after burial, the corpse of Mr Ahmad Adekunle Abdulsalam, a member of staff of the College of Education, Oro in Irepodun local government area of Kwara State, who was killed by lightening on September 21,2017, was exhumed, last Tuesday, and mysteriously found still fresh. November 12, 2017 In "Just Human" ONE person was shot dead and three others seriously injured as two foreigners working with a construction Company in Akungba Akoko area of Ondo state were abducted by four armed men. January 31, 2014 In "News"