As part of getting Nigerians prepared against Coronavirus, COVID-19 which is spreading rapidly across the world, e-commerce platform, Jumia, said it has partnered a health products manufacturer, Reckitt Benckiser, RB to help Africans access hygienic products at the lowest price. According to Jumia, the partnership will cover eight of the markets where Jumia operates including Algeria, Egypt, Ghana, Kenya, Morocco, Nigeria, South Africa and Uganda. It said the partnership will provide a steady supply of hygiene products such as soap bars, disinfectants, and liquid hand wash at affordable pricing. Senior Vice President, SVP, Jumia Group, Romain Christodoulou said Jumia will be taking zero percent commission on the products and will reinvest the initial commission into discounts on the consumer price. He also said Reckitt Benckiser is financing free shipping nationwide on all listed products whereas consumers will be able to access all products from the “Stay Safe” page on Jumia, co-owned with Reckitt Benckiser. Christodoulou said: “At Jumia, our primary concern is the health and well-being of our teammates, consumers, partners and communities. We strive to continue operating so that customers continue to use e-commerce as a safe way to shop in this challenging time.  We are proud to work closely with Reckitt Benckiser through the “Stay Safe” campaign, which shares consistent information about COVID-19 and provides access to key hygiene products at the most affordable price possible for our consumers. “The partnership will also provide critical information around Coronavirus. Reckitt Benckiser has created the Mythbuster website to help update consumers on risks and best practices to avoid the virus from spreading. Jumia is creating several awareness campaigns which direct consumers to both the ‘Stay Safe’ page and the ‘Mythbuster’ website,” he explained. Also, SVP RB Health Africa/ Middle East / Turkey, Bart Meermans, said: “Reckitt Bencksier is delighted to partner with Jumia to ensure that access to the highest quality hygiene and health product is a right, not a privilege. By financing nationwide free shipping in all markets where Jumia operates, from capital cities to more rural areas, Reckitt Benckiser is providing fair access to supply for all consumers, regardless of their location. In his opinion, the Director-General of the Federal Competition & Consumer Protection Commission of Nigeria, FCCPC, Mr Babatunde Irukera, said: “The Federal Competition & Consumer Protection Commission welcomes the proactive, innovative and socially responsible approach Jumia and Reckitt Benckiser have adopted in addressing potential supply shortages in key hygiene products, ensuring affordability and accessibility, and promoting awareness regarding COVID-19. VANGUARD Africa Internet Group has announced it is connecting its companies into Jumia’s ecosystem with a new vision, "Expand your horizons". The group said the new ecosystem will give access to products and services from its leading platforms. June 25, 2016 In "News" The rise and growth of e-commerce in the world and primarily in Africa has created a lot of business opportunities, not only in urban but also in rural areas. The good news is that there is undoubtedly increased connectivity, reaching even the previously inaccessible remote villages across the continent and… August 28, 2019 In "Viewpoint" According to UNICEF, more than 4.2 billion people globally live without safely managed sanitation options, while over 1 billion people still defecate in the open. In Nigeria, an estimated 47 million people practise open defecation. In commemoration of the 2019 World Toilet Day and as part of efforts towards achieving… November 25, 2019 In "News"