The search for prevention against coronavirus and the fear of contracting it has resulted in good business for herb sellers in Kaduna, as the prices of spices have gone up. Ginger and garlic sellers, Vanguard gathered, are making huge sales, following rumours that they protect users against the epidemic. Vanguard also learned that an online letter, said to have come from China and had gone viral, indicated that a mixture of ginger, garlic and some herbs was excellent prevention and cure of COVID-19 when taken as a tea. ALSO READ: Kano state govt says it is on top of Lassa Fever situation However, the World Health Organisation, WHO, has debunked the rumour of spices preventing coronavirus infection, but noted the health benefits of such spices. A message on its site said: “Garlic is a healthy food that may have some antimicrobial properties. However, there is no evidence from the current outbreak that eating garlic has protected people from the new coronavirus,” followed by the graphics below: Meanwhile, Malam Hassan Rufai told Vanguard that his body had changed for good after taking the said spices’ tea-mixture, even as he enjoyed his nocturnal matrimonial duties more than before. He said: “Ginger and garlic will soon be scarce in Kano market, especially the fresh ones. The traders are hiking the price because people are becoming aware of its importance in combating severe cold and body pain.” On the veracity of coronavirus prevention, Rufai, a youth leader in Hayin Banki community, said all he knows is that natural lemon was also good in fighting severe cold, as he was talking from experience. Vanguard  The World Health Organisation (WHO) says that eating garlic and regularly rinsing nose with saline solution will not guard against coronavirus infection (2019-nCoV). Information obtained from WHO’s website on Monday dispelled various myths and rumours surrounding the 2019-nCoV that could potentially harm the public’s health. WHO refuted some of the… February 3, 2020 In "Health" LASG debunks rumour of suspected case in Alimosho LGA By Sola Ogundipe The World  Health Organisation, WHO has called for caution against the spread of panic  over the coronavirus outbreak in China and other affected countries. The WHO, which is  tackling misinformation over the coronavirus outbreak had declared the oubreak… February 10, 2020 In "Health" Says 5 labs diagnosing Lassa fever in Nigeria WHO launches campaign to address misinformation By Sola Ogundipe The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control says it has successfully validated the capacity to test for the novel coronavirus in Nigeria at its  National Reference Laboratory. Disclosing this in Abuja, the Chief Executive… February 4, 2020 In "Health"