Following the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday declared a total lockdown of Lagos, Ogun states, and Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The President declared this in his address on a nationwide broadcast, he stated that based on the advice of the Federal Ministry of Health and the NCDC, it became imperative that an initial lockdown period of 14 days be imposed. According to the President, the lockdown begins from 11pm on Monday, 30th March 2020. He noted that Lagos and Abuja have the majority of confirmed cases in Nigeria, hence the lockdown is in line with the government’s focus to urgently and drastically contain these cases, and to support other states and regions in the best way possible. However, there are establishments that were exempted from the total lockdown in the states, and this means that these establishments will be allowed to partially operate. Below are some of those who are exempted from the order according to President Muhammadu Buhari. 2. Medical establishments 3. Broadcasters 4. Food processing, distribution and retail companies 5. Petroleum distribution and retail entities 6. Power generation, transmission and distribution companies 7. Hospitals 8. Telecommunications Workers 9. Health care manufacturing and distribution companies 10. Print media staff 11. Electronic media personnel. Vanguard Nigeria News LAGOS—Lawyers were yesterday divided on the propriety of President Muhammadu Buhari declaring lrestrictions on movements in Abuja, Lagos and Ogun states to check  the spread of coronavirus pandemic in the country. March 30, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday ordered a total restriction of movements in Lagos and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) for an initial period of 14 days  following the outbreak of coronavirus in the country, The President, who disclosed this in a nationwide broadcast on the COVID-19 pandemic, said the directive… March 29, 2020 In "News" THE Coalition of United Political Parties,CUPP, has expressed its support for President Muhammadu Buhari for locking down Abuja, Lagos and Ogun states for an initial period of 14 days in the government's move to stop the spread of the dreaded coronavirus. March 29, 2020 In "News"