The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, said on Saturday Nigeria’s health care system cannot withstand a coronavirus pandemic on the scale of America and Europe. The ex-Lagos State governor in a statement he personally signed to mark his 68th birthday, urged the Federal Government and the citizens to do everything to curb the spread of the disease that had infected 89 persons in the country. He said: “The public health care systems of developed nations have been overwhelmed by this virus. They are running out of equipment and healthy doctors. “Our public health care system is much smaller and less equipped than those in Europe and North America. We cannot afford to put undue pressure on our system because it cannot bear the great weight of a pandemic. “Thus, it is incumbent on us to thoroughly implement and obey social safety and distancing techniques so that we halt the spread of the disease and keep hospitalization to the barest possible minimum.”  Vanguard President, CMA, Dr Osahon Enabulele By Chioma Obinna The President of Commonwealth Medical Association, Dr Osahon Enabulele  called for total closure of all entry points into Nigeria even as he urged the government to urgently deploy more facilities and resources to combat the coronavirus pandemic that has led to thousands… March 24, 2020 In "Health" Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently instruct the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, and Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, ICPC, to jointly track and monitor spending by federal agencies and state governors to combat Coronavirus, COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. March 23, 2020 In "Health" Amidst fears by health watchers and close observers that Nigeria may be going the way of Italy and Spain that have suffered high casualties from corona virus disease, COVID-19 that is ravaging the global community, the Lagos State Government raised an alarm yesterday that 39,000 cases of the disease may… March 28, 2020 In "News"