Ace comedian, Francis Agoda popularly known as I Go Dye has called on attendees of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA) which held Saturday, March 14, 2020 at Eko Hotel Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos to go for COVID-19 test and screening. This is in the wake of the announcement by the Lagos State Government that attendees of the event may be at risk after one confirmed case was said to have attended the show. The visionary humour merchant and social commentator gave the advice in a one-minute video posted on his Instagram page to help the Federal Government promote more awareness on social distancing. “We have a role to play at this point of our life, let’s try and   save humanity. I call on those that were at the AMVCAs to go for check up since the governor of Lagos State has declared they may be at risk. And those who attended the show who are in Asaba should go for screening. So that they can protect their lives, which is more important and reduce further damage to others,” he said. The multiple award-winning comedian recently cancelled his 25th-anniversary show tagged; “I Go Dye Standing, Kinging with the Kings” which was scheduled to hold on April 12 because of the rising scourge of the virus. VANGUARD Ace comedian, Francis Agoda popularly known as I Go Dye has called on attendees of the Africa Magic Viewers' Choice Awards (AMVCA) which held Saturday, March 14, 2020 at Eko Hotel Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos to go for COVID-19 test and screening. This is in the wake of the announcement… March 25, 2020 In "Entertainment" The Lagos State Government has urged all participants in the recently conducted African Magic Viewer's Choice Award, AMVCA 2020, to self-isolate. It confirmed that one of the participants had tested positive to the COVID-19 virus, thereby exposing other attendees to the raging virus. The announcement was made through the state… March 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" AS NCDC confirms new cases in Lagos, Ogun LASG  urges all participants of AMVCA to go on self -isolation By Chioma  Obinna The number of cases of coronavirus diseases in Nigeria on Tuesday, rose from 40 to 42 following two new confirmed cases in Lagos and Ogun State. Confirming this… March 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"