The Edo State Government has ordered the arrest of a 70-year-old man, who allegedly defiled and rape a 14-year-old girl. The Commissioner for Social Development and Gender Issues, Hon. (Mrs.) Maria Edeko, who disclosed this in a chat with journalists in Benin City, said the investigation is part of efforts by the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration to ensure child molestation, rape and defilement are drastically reduced in the state. Edeko said the 14-year-old girl is currently receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital, noting that the girl’s health condition was getting stable. According to her, “Governor Godwin Obaseki has said no child under his watch will be defiled, raped or molested. He is determined to ensure that the right of every girl-child in Edo State is protected. “The issue of child defilement for Obaseki is a serious issue and culprits must be punished for their crimes. We are talking about the 14-year-old girl today. We will not turn a blind eye to such crime as offenders should be ready to go jail.” The 70-year-old man, Mr John Eseigbe, however, denied the allegation, noting that the girl, who lives with his family, stole from him and was sent packing by his wife. He said the parents of the girl are friends to his family, adding that he could not have jeopardised the long-standing relationship that exists between both families. Vanguard The Edo State Government has set up a committee to check the incidence of child defilement in the state, in a renewed effort to strengthen the Child Rights Law to address issues of sexual abuse of children. May 17, 2018 In "Crime Alert" As she sat in the midst of some officials of the Edo State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, inside the Evbuoriaria Magistrate Court, Benin City, with her hands folded and gazing into space, nine year-old Lilian( not real name) musings were interrupted by by the sound of  c—o-u—r—t … August 4, 2018 In "News" One of the common crimes in Edo State these days is the defilement of minors by men who many believe are seeking cure of one spiritual problem or the other. April 15, 2018 In "News"