 The bill seeking to make Higher National Diploma, HND, the minimum qualification for anyone aspiring to the office of the President or governor has passed second reading at the Senate. The Senate, on Thursday, passed the constitution amendment bill, which was sponsored by a member of the Peoples Democratic Party from Plateau State, Senator Isfifanus Gyang. It also prescribed National Diploma or its equivalent as the minimum qualification for federal and state lawmakers. The bill seeks to alter the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to provide for the amendment of Sections 65 (2) (a), and 131 (d). It will also amend Section 106 (c) and Section 177 (d) on minimum education qualification for those seeking election into the State Assembly, Governor, National Assembly and office of the President. The bill seeks the alteration of section 65 (2) (a) of the Constitution which deals with the qualifications for intending members of the National Assembly. The current law, which the bill seeks to amend reads, “A person shall be qualified for election under subsection (1) of this section if he has been educated up to at least School Certificate level or its equivalent.” Section 65 (2) (a) has now been rephrased to read “if he has been educated to at least a National Diploma level or its equivalent.” The bill also seeks the alteration of Section 131 (d) which deals with minimum requirements for anyone running for the office of the governor. The current Section of the Constitution states that the person must have “been educated up to at least School Certificate level or its equivalent”. Section 131 (d) is now rephrased to read, “He has been educated up to at least HND level or’ its equivalent.” For House of Assembly, the bill seeks the alteration of section 106 (c) of the Constitution. ALSO READ: Presidential Poll: Why we upheld Buhari’s re-election — S’Court According to the existing law, anyone aspiring to be a member of the House of Assembly must have “been educated up to at least the School Certificate level or its equivalent”. But Section 106 (c) is now rephrased to read, “If he has been educated up to National diploma level or its equivalent.” The bill seeks the alteration of section 177 (d) of the Constitution for governors. As it is currently, the Section states that the person must have “been educated up to at least School Certificate level or its equivalent”. However, Section 177 (d) is now rephrased to read, “If he has been educated up to at least Higher National Diploma, HND, Level or its equivalent.” The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, referred the bill to the Committee on Constitution Review after the senators passed the proposed amendment for second reading. Vanguard The two chambers of the National Assembly will today enter the most decisive step in changing the 1999 Constitution with votes on 32 bills in the two chambers of the National Assembly. To avoid throwing away the baby with the bath water the two committees of the Senate and the… July 26, 2017 In "News" The Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM) has called on Nigerians to reject the Senate's proposed bill on the Armed Forces Service Commission, describing it as a “taboo”. March 4, 2020 In "News" Proposals for restructuring of the country took a negative turn yesterday after the Senate rejected moves to decongest the Exclusive Legislative List and in favour of the Concurrent List in line with agitation for devolution of powers to the states. July 27, 2017 In "Headlines"