The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday said that    it will remain operational during the COVID-19 period. The apex bank however said that non essential in its headquarter  and 37 branches will stay at home and work remotely in the spirit of social distancing. Director, Corporate Communication, Isaac Okoroafor disclosed this in a statement issued yesterday.
He said: “Following the current impact of the Corona Virus (COVID-19) on the global economy coupled with efforts by the Nigerian Government, including partial lockdown in some states and at the Federal level, to check the spread of the virus in Nigeria, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) wishes to inform stakeholders and members of the Nigerian public that the bank will remain open for business during this period. “As a responsible public institution and regulator, we have triggered our business continuity plans to ensure that the bank’s operations remain largely undisrupted at this present time when social distancing has become key to checking further spread of the virus. We have also directed Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) and other financial institutions to do same. “ The welfare and safety of our staff and their families, and indeed all Nigerians, remain top priority to us.    Consequently, with effect from Wednesday, March 25, 2020, till further notice, only essential staff of the CBN Head Office and the 37 Branches of the Bank will be expected to report for duty daily.” Vanguard The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) says it has triggered business continuity plans to ensure the bank’s operations remain uninterrupted despite COVID-19 outbreak in the country. Mr Isaac Okorafor, the CBN Director of Corporate Communications Department, said this in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday. Okorafor disclosed that the apex… March 25, 2020 In "News" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Wednesday announced additional measures to address the possible impact of the Covid-19 virus on the economy, including injection of N1 trillion across all critical sectors of the economy. March 18, 2020 In "Business" On the backdrop of the ongoing global economic crises over the Coronavirus (COVID-19) the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has announced the reduction of interests rate on its intervention loans from nine percent to five percent, as well as, an extension of moratorium from one to two years, to buffer… March 17, 2020 In "Business"