The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Linkage Assurance Plc, Mr. Daniel Braie has assured the brokerage community that the company will meet the new capital base of N10 billion. Braie said that Linkage is not looking outside for funding to meet the recapitalisation requirement, but that it has the internal capacity to raise the needed funds. Braie, who disclosed this during the February Members Evening of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) held in Lagos, said that Linkage Assurance will conclude its recapitalization process on or before the end of second quarter 2020. ALSO READ: He told them that they are dealing with an underwriter that is financially strong and have the capacity to meet its obligations as and when due, disclosing that Linkage as at the end of 2019 has shareholders fund of N28 billion. According to him, “being the first underwriter to host the brokers this year 2020, having also achieved that feat in 2019 underscores the regard and valued partnership the company has with the brokers. “We believe that the brokers are our genuine partners and that is why we continue to be the first to host this programme. Linkage is also the first underwriting company to extend this partnership to other Area Committees of NCRIB outside Lagos. “NCRIB Area Committees hosted in 2019 are in Abuja, Port-Harcourt, Kano, and we are continuing,” he said. Vanguard Linkage Assurance Plc has assured its broker partners and potential customers of the company’s commitment to prompt settlement of claims, customer satisfaction and efficient service delivery. July 16, 2019 In "Insurance and You" Linkage Assurance Plc has assured its broker partners and potential customers of the company's commitment to prompt settlement of claims, customer satisfaction and efficient service delivery. July 22, 2019 In "Insurance and You" Linkage Assurance Plc has secured the approval of its shareholders to increase the authorized share capital of the company from N7.5 billion to N15 billion by the creation of additional 30,000,000,000 billion ordinary shares at 50 kobos each. November 5, 2019 In "Business"