The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, said on Wednesday the Federal Government has proposed the reduction of oil benchmark from $57 to $30 per barrel following the crash in the crude oil price in the international market. Ahmed, who disclosed this at the end of a meeting between the federal government and the leadership of the National Assembly in Abuja,  said the meeting was meant to review the 2020 budget and Medium Term Expenditure Framework, (MTEF) due to the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic on the global economy. The minister proposed a review of the 2020 budget using a $30 per barrel price benchmark as against $57 proposed by President Muhammadu Buhari in December last year. She said the move was part of the measures to prepare for the worst-case scenario and insulate the Nigerian economy against any form of unexpected crisis. Ahmed also told the leadership of the National Assembly that budgeted revenues for the Nigeria Customs Service have been reduced from N1.5 trillion to N943billion “due to anticipated reduction in trade volumes.” The minister said:  “The privatisation proceeds will be cut by 50 percent, based on the adverse economic outlook on sales of the Independent Power Projects and other assets.”“The Federal Government is working on Fiscal Stimulus Measures to provide fiscal relief for taxpayers and key economic sectors. “We will incentivise employers to retain and recruit staff during the economic downturn.”  Vanguard  ---C'ttee to assess impact of Coronavirus on 2020 budget By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA----PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Monday set up a committee to assess the impact of the ravaging Coronavirus on the economy especially the 2020.budget. The committee is saddled with the responsibility of revisiting the crude oil benchmark price of… March 9, 2020 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari yesterday set up a committee to assess the impact of the ravaging coronavirus on the economy, especially the 2020.budget. March 10, 2020 In "News" The    Federal Government’s  budget 2020, yesterday, came under major threat with a loss of N494 billion in the projected oil revenue following the global crash in crude oil price, which saw the price of nation’s, Bonny light tumbling to $46 per barrel,    10.67 percent lower than the budget… March 10, 2020 In "Business"