All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is celebrating his 68th birthday today with a message on his “preliminary thoughts on the economic action”the country might take should coronavirus “mortally threaten” our economy. In the 9-point measures he believes the Federal Government should take are tax deductions and increased stipends to the poor. Others are that government should maintain expenditures, accelerating spending on key infrastructural projects, ensuring food security, lowering interest rates, quantitative easing, allowing downward pressure on the Naira and debt suspension. It is the second time Tinubu is speaking on coronavirus. In the first statement about a fortnight ago, the APC National leader had likened the crisis rocking the ruling party at the federal level to coronavirus, saying members should purge themselves of the virus. In his suggestion on tax deductions in the latest statement titled, A message on coronavirus, a time for unity, a time for thought, a thought for action, he said: “Government should announce a tax credit or partial tax reduction for firms. VAT should be suspended for the next 2-4 months. This will help lower import costs and protect against shortages.” On increased stipends to the poor, Tinubu said: “We do this by widening the net, substantially increasing the number of recipients of anti-poverty stipends.“ President Muhammadu Buhari and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, National Leader, the All Progressives Congress (APC) say infrastructure development is a critical component of the Next Level of the administration. March 28, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, led prominent Nigerians from far and near to pour praises on former Lagos State Governor and All Progressives Congress, APC, chieftain, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Tinubu turns 65, today. March 29, 2017 In "News" The national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, has asked the federal government not to increase value added tax (VAT) by saying: “Don’t reduce the people’s purchasing power.” March 28, 2019 In "News"