FOLLOWING the protest    of residents of Ijegun  community over the planned development of the port city, officials of the Ministry of Transportation and the Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, weekend, visited the site to ascertain things for themselves, even as the National Inland Waterways Authority, NIWA, placed a ‘stop-work’ order on the facility. The visit of the government agencies followed an earlier meeting the previous day over the planned development of the facility. The chairman, Satellite Town Forum, Michael Imiteni, told Vanguard Maritime Report that an official of the NPA said that Westron Property Nigeria Limited, the supposed developers, had gotten an approval from NIWA through the Ministry of Transportation. According to him, “Arch Omotosho said that Westron has gotten approval from the ministry. He was diplomatic and economical to say the fact but there is a need for more investigation. There is currently a stop-work-order notice by NIWA on Westron Bridge at Folarin Ijegun waterside.” Recall that Imiteni had earlier said, ”We have been on this agitation of setting Satellite Town free; Satellite town is a residential area; you can verify from the Federal Ministry of Environment, Lagos State Ministry of Environment and Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, for this status. “But along the line, individual investors are turning it into a mixed environment with commercial activities which has led to the establishment of tank farms. Already we have about 13 marketing companies of tank farms and these marketing companies have over 50 tank farms that are already in place and over 600 trucks plying Mumuney Adio Badmos road popularly known as Maruwa road.” He noted that if the development of the facility is allowed, trucks and tankers coming from the proposed port and the numerous tank farms will have to go through the same over-stretched Mumuney Adio Badmos road popularly known as Maruwa road as the Nigerian Navy will not allow the use the alternative Alakija end of the road. THE Lagos State government in conjunction with Westron Group, weekend, commissioned a one kilometre link bridge at the Ijegun port city, Lagos, stressing that the new port will further enhance the evacuation of petroleum products from both Apapa and Tin-Can Island ports. March 4, 2020 In "News" THE Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, last week engaged Lagos State Government officials in a heated debate at the National Assembly, Abuja, over the ownership of 11 hectares of land in the upscale Eko Atlantic City, Victoria Island, Lagos. August 21, 2018 In "Maritime Report" STAKEHOLDERS in the maritime industry have raised an alarm over high-level of smuggling through operations at the various private jetties scattered across the nation’s waterfront, even as they warmed about the security implication of an unregulated operations at these facilities. Private jetties are licensed by the Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA;… March 4, 2020 In "Business"