It was an emotional evening for thousands of viewers as the first evictions from Access The Stars reality music show occurred over the weekend. Three contestants—Janet, Anna James and Amarachi—left the show after intense competition. Having scaled through the regional auditions, all 13 successful contestants were finally ushered into the Bootcamp in Lagos, where the exciting finalists hailing from various cities across Nigeria, were welcomed by hosts Darey Art Alade and Olive Emodi. Determined to get off the mark, the contestants toured the Bootcamp, before settling in for an all-inclusive orientation which included fun activities such as board games, PS4 contests and an exclusive welcome party. With the Bootcamp in full swing, all 13 finalists received intense training and masterclasses from seasoned professionals including vocal coach Miss Ige and Access The Stars music director, Ben Ogbeiwi, popularly known as Uncle Ben. The training ran across voice and breath control techniques, as well as an exercise session and dance classes. Coaches also prepared the contestants for their crucial performances at the Judges Stage Show. Themed “Trading Places,” male contestants at the stage show performed hits by female stars, while their female counterparts were put to task by hit records from male artists. An outstanding performance was turned in by Promyze, who received a standing ovation from Seyi Shay following an impressive rendition of the singer’s hit, ‘Right now’. Ada Gold was showered with praises for her masterful delivery of Labrynth’s ‘Jealous’. Gabriel Songz’s powerful cover of Adele’s ‘When we were young’ was redemptive, while Anderson blew the audience and judges away with a stellar performance which was deemed “too perfect.” Sadly, celebrity judges Seyi Shay, Kaffy, and Tee-Y Mix, each nominated two contestants based on their performance scores, before saving one each. Janet, Anna James and Amarachi were evicted from the show after scoring the lowest on the judges’ sheets. The remaining finalists will continue their journey in boot camp. VANGUARD By Ayo Onikoyi With just four unoccupied slots in boot camp, hundreds of music talents in Owerri and Onitsha fought for the chance of a lifetime, hoping to secure one of the two slots allocated to each city in Access The Stars. Sponsored by Access Bank and the premium alcoholic… March 21, 2020 In "Entertainment" The winner of the Globacom sponsored dance reality TV show, Dance with Peter, will emerge this weekend, the next generation telecom network has stated. The company said it would be a thrilling end to the show which has been ruling the airwaves since August. December 19, 2015 In "Entertainment" FoodbayTV, a platform of Maxima Media Group, has announced a new platform to be sponsored by Devon Kings: “Street Foodz Naija”;  A televised and digitally transmitted docu-reality series that will showcase the best of Nigeria’s street food delicacies and award the finalist with a one million naira cash prize, renovated… November 12, 2019 In "Entertainment"