Iraq condemned overnight U.S. air strikes on Friday, with its military saying they had killed six people. Iraq described them as a violation of sovereignty and a targeted aggression against the nation’s regular armed forces. President Barham Salih said repeated such violations could cause Iraq to unravel into a failed state and revive the Islamic State militant group. The military warned the air strikes would have consequences while the foreign ministry said it summoned the U.S. and British ambassadors. The United States said it carried out the series of strikes on Thursday against an Iranian-backed militia in Iraq that it blamed for a rocket attack a day earlier which killed two American soldiers and a British soldier. U.S. says threat from Iran still high after U.S. retaliatory strikes in Iraq. Long-standing antagonism between the U.S. and Iran has mostly played out on Iraqi soil in recent months. Iraq’s Joint Operations Command said in a statement that the reason the U.S. gave for the attack was an excuse. “The pretext that this attack came as a response to the aggression that targeted the Taji base is a false pretext; one that leads to escalation and does not provide a solution.’’ It said that as well as the six killed, 12 people had been wounded in the U.S. air strikes, and that infrastructure, weapons and equipment at targeted military sites were destroyed. The Pentagon said the strikes targeted five weapons stores used by Kataib Hezbollah militia, including facilities housing arms used in past attacks on U.S.-led coalition troops. Official Iraqi casualty figures showed no paramilitary fighters had been killed. The military said three soldiers, two policemen and one civilian were killed, according to an initial toll, and that four soldiers, two policemen, a civilian, and five militiamen were injured. Iraqi religious authorities said the civilians killed and wounded were construction workers at an airport building site in the Shi’ite Muslim holy city of Kerbala. [Reuters/NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. The United States military is resuming operations against Islamic State militants in Iraq and is working to soon restart training Iraqi forces, U.S. officials said Wednesday, despite deep divisions over the American drone strike that killed an senior Iranian commander in Baghdad and the resulting missile attacks by Iran on… January 16, 2020 In "News" Washington is committed to “de-escalation” after a U.S. air strike in Baghdad killed Qassem Soleimani, the architect of Iran’s growing military influence in the Middle East, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says. Pompeo said on Twitter on Friday that he spoke to British Foreign Minister Dominic Raab and China’s top… January 3, 2020 In "Foreign" United States (US) airstrikes against a pro-Iran group in Iraq killed at least 25 fighters, a paramilitary umbrella said Monday, triggering anger in a country caught up in mounting tensions between Tehran and Washington. The attacks on Sunday night saw US planes hit several bases belonging to the Hezbollah brigades,… December 30, 2019 In "Foreign"