Nnewi—The Christian Council of Nigeria, CCN, has directed its members and non members in the country to shun public gatherings which might expose them to coronavirus and be a possible source of  infections. CCN also directed Priests in charge of large congregations to consider increasing the number of services in their churches to space out the congregation. It also urged priests in charge of churches to activate their online worships, house fellowship and zonal worships to enable individual members the choice of worship on any of the platforms as a serious step to avoid being infected by the deadly virus. In a statement by its Chairman and Bishop on the Niger, Rt. Rev. Owen Nwokolo, titled: “Our Position on Coronavirus” CCN also encouraged Church leaders, the Clergy, and all Church workers to study the various government documents and ensure that there is public awareness among their congregation on the deadly virus. While encouraging members to avoid public gatherings, CNN said that “the ban on public gatherings does not imply a ban on worship of the Almighty God”, saying that this is the time Christians should more than before, be in constant communication with God. “Our Churches shall remain open to individual worshippers until such a time the government decides to shut down all activities and order everyone to stay indoors “Absolute caution must therefore be taken by Priests in charge to ensure that all the churches are sanitized and body temperature measuring devices provided to check those individuals who would want to worship in the church. “We have followed the current spread of the Coronavirus declared a pandemic by World Health Organization, WHO, but as Christians, we should not panic, we must continue to pray and trust in God to deliver us while taking steps to avoid being infected. “This trying period is a time to be our brothers’ keeper, we charge all the clergy and church workers to be serious with their pastoral duties. This is a time to be proactive and time to be in constant spiritual touch with every member of our congregation more than before.” Vanguard By Sam Eyoboka FOLLOWING the recent directives by the Lagos and Ogun state governments placing a ban on all religious meetings and gatherings of more than 50 worshippers in Lagos, as part of the precautionary steps towards managing the further spread of the Coronavirus disease, the Redeemed Christian Church… March 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" As the number of people infected with Coronavirus in Nigeria increased to 22 yesterday, findings by Sunday Vanguard revealed that of the 12 states that restricted mass gathering many are complying in default. March 22, 2020 In "News" THE election of the 7th National President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, to succeed Pentecostal Pastor Ayo Oritsejafor may have come and gone but the nation may not have seen the end of the exercise as there were attempts to stop the electoral process when the campaign director… June 19, 2016 In "News"