President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the suspension of movement of all passenger aircrafts both private and public. Buhari in a much-anticipated state of the nation broadcast on the ravaging COVID-19 virus also said that special permits will be issued on a needs basis. “We are fully aware that such measures will cause much hardship and inconvenience to many citizens. But this is a matter of life and death if we look at the dreadful daily toll of deaths in Italy, France and Spain. “Accordingly, the Hon. Minister of Health is hereby directed to redeploy all Port Health Authority employees previously stationed in the Lagos and Abuja Airports to key roads that serve as entry and exit points to these restricted zones. “Movements of all passenger aircraft, both commercial and private jets, are hereby suspended. Special permits will be issued on a needs basis. “However, we must all see this as our national and patriotic duty to control and contain the spread of this virus. I will, therefore, ask all of us affected by this order to put aside our personal comfort to safeguard ourselves and fellow human beings. This common enemy can only be controlled if we all come together and obey scientific and medical advice. “As we remain ready to enforce these measures, we should see this as our individual contribution in the war against COVID-19. Many other countries have taken far stricter measures in a bid to control the spread of the virus with positive results,” he said. Read full speech here Vanguard “ Murtala Mohammed Airport processed over six million passengers in 2010 representing an increase of about 11.41 per cent above that of 2009. The Regional Manager, Murtala Mohammed Airport/South-West, Mr. Edward Olarerin, who disclosed this, said there has been an increase in both passenger and cargo movements at the airport in… July 4, 2011 In "Finance" The FirstNation Airways has postponed resumption of its flight operations, earlier scheduled for Sept. 15, by a few days. September 15, 2016 In "News" The political camp of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, has created a website for the pupose of telling the 'facts and history' of the former military head of state to the world. January 26, 2015 In "News"