The Deputy National Chairman (South) of the All Progressives Congress, APC, and the immediate-past Governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi has commended the Federal Government for the steps taken so far to curb the spread of Covid-19 otherwise known Coronavirus. Ajimobi spoke on Monday evening while reacting to President Muhammadu Buhari’s national broadcast where measures to curb the spread of the disease were announced. He especially recalled that the palliative measures of the federal government would go a long way in alleviating the problems that could be associated with the Stay-at-home advisory. The former Governor also commended the Governors across the country for the steps taken so far to nip the spread of Covid-19 in the bud. “Apart from all our governors across the country who are taking steps to curb the transmission of the disease, I want to especially commend Governor Jide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State for his pro-active measures to safeguard the lives of Lagosians.” “Lagos is a major economic hub of the country with a lot of people moving into the State from all over the country, thus the steps taken so far by the governor to curtail the spread of the disease is worthy of commendation”, he said. Reacting to the announcement that the Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde tested positive to Covid-19, the APC Deputy National Chairman who expressed solidarity with the Governor said he had already sent Makinde a solidarity message to wish him a quick recovery and God’s protection. “Immediately I heard that my brother, Governor Seyi Makinde test came back positive, I sent him a text message to express solidarity with him and wish him quick recovery and God’s protection. I also want to appreciate him for his bravery with this revelation. “I know with adequate care he will get over it. I wish him a quick recovery.” Ajimobi also advised Nigerians to keep on observing the safety measures that have been enunciated by health professionals. “COVID-19-is not a death sentence, people have recovered from it. We will get over this too, but we must continue to ensure that we follow all safety measures like washing of hands, social-distancing and other safety standards as recommended by our health professionals.” “As for all our health workers, we appreciate them for their front line role in the fight against the disease,” he said. Vanguard The Deputy National Chairman (South) of the All Progressives Congress, APC, and the immediate-past Governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi has commended the Federal Government for the steps taken so far to curb the spread of Covid-19 otherwise known Coronavirus. March 30, 2020 In "News" By Adeola Badru President Muhammadu Buhari has been called upon to retrace his steps and include Oyo State and other states with confirmed cases of Covid-19 in whatever measures being taken by the Federal Government to curtail the spread of the virus in the country. A three-term member of the… March 30, 2020 In "News" Sets up task force on Coronavirus in Ibadan today By Adeola Badru Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has stated that he took responsibility for whatever lapses in judgement occasioned by the conduct of the Southwest Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rally in Ibadan. The governor's statement followed series of backlashes… March 20, 2020 In "News"