THE College and Careers Guidance Counsellor of Greenspring School, Soluzo Ekenta, has advised parents to allow their children to study courses the children are passionate about. She stated this during an event in the school recently. She said: “There is nothing wrong with parents recommending that their children should study courses that can get them lucrative jobs. In the past, those courses include medicine, law and engineering. But there are many other unpopular courses that also guarantee lucrative jobs, and in our new information technology (IT) age, there are hundreds of new lucrative IT-based jobs.” Soluzo suggested that instead of parents forcing their children to study courses that are believed to be lucrative, they should encourage them to study courses based on their strength and interest. She said: “At Greensprings School, our goal is to give our students quality education that builds a solid foundation for whatever course they want to study in the university or college. We also guide them to choose courses based on their strength and passion. “Towards the end of last year, we launched our “careers, college and university” readiness centres and introduced a new software called Maia Learning. “The software enables our secondary school students to take personality tests and the results are used to recommend courses that suit the personality of each student. The students get to discover their areas of strengths and learn about profitable courses that are in line with their passion. “And as it turned out, the students and their parents are happy, because the software helped both to achieve their objectives.” Soluzo encouraged parents to listen to their children when it’s time to choose a course of study. Vanguard As the summer holiday approaches and exam periods winding down, parents are once again overwhelmed with the thought of how they can keep their children creatively engaged during the summer holidays. July 11, 2018 In "Education" IF you have ever thought it is impossible for any Nigerian parent to withdraw his child from a school inb the US or the UK for a school in Nigeria, then you are about to read of the possibility: A former Senate president, Senator Adolphus Wabara, did so. Wabara, while… June 28, 2018 In "Education" Executive Director, Greensprings School, Mrs Lai Koiki has enjoined parents to introduce early child education to their children, adding that exposing them to adequate foundational knowledge would position them for greatness. August 30, 2018 In "Education"