In celebrating the International Women’s Day, Simba Group has empowered and trained graduates of their Queen Riders Program, which is the company’s flagship CSR initiative. Speaking during the event, Spokesman of Simba Group, Mr. Karthik Govindarajan, explained that the Women’s Empowerment is a key focus of the Simba Group adding that, in particular, the Queen Rider’s Program, is a key platform for achieving their vision of enriching lives of Nigerians. “The program was born from the Group’s desire to train women from underrepresented backgrounds, so that they have a chance to increase their total family income. The Simba Training School which also conducts advanced mechanic courses, has provided training to these riders, free of cost. Trainings like this are regularly conducted by Simba TVS across the country and several of these Queen Riders are not only driving kekes but also some have become fleet owners operating several tricycles. After the women are trained and certified, they also have the option to be put in contact with various tricycle fleet owners and microfinance institutions so that they have a better chance of availing these micro-entrepreneurship opportunities” he stated. He noted that the Training School conducts advanced courses in tricycle repair and maintenance along with the riding programs. “The Simba Group, one of the country’s most respected business groups, has been in Nigeria for over 30 years. In that time, the group has contributed greatly to the Nigerian economy, and its portfolio of widely recognised brands, continue to dominate industries in which Simba operates. Our TVS tricycle line is the leading keke brand in the country” he disclosed. Founder of Five Cowries Initiative, Polly Alakija, and Actress, Chioma Akpoth, who presided over the ceremony, noted that Simba and TVS have a long association with women’s empowerment, adding that, it will be recalled, that the Queen Riders’ program was established to teach women from under-represented backgrounds how to safely ride and repair tricycles, enabling them to partake in the industry and increase their families’ disposable incomes. VANGUARD The Simba Group, distributors of TVS King tricycles, has held a graduation ceremony for women tricycle (Keke) riders following training programmes last month. In total, the graduating batch consisted of 32 women trained in both safe riding and basic maintenance of TVS King tricycles. December 9, 2018 In "News" IN furtherance of its road safety education initiatives, Simba TVS, distributors of Nigeria’s largest selling tricycle brand, has conducted a training programme on road safety for tricycle drivers in Abuja. The event was organised in collaboration with the Vehicle Inspection Office, VIO, Abuja and consisted of both classroom-based and practical… March 6, 2020 In "Motoring" As part of their plans to celebrate and empower women, Simba Group, distributors of TVS tricycles, organised a free check-up camp for female tricycle riders, with a call on more women to take up the business as a means of livelihood. March 13, 2018 In "News"