Oil-producing communities in Delta South senatorial district, have urged the Federal Government to stick to the implementation of the 2020 deadline for the cessation of gas flaring in the country. Recall that the Federal Government had launched the Nigeria Gas Flare Commercialization Programme,  NGFCP, in 2016 to phase-out gas flaring by 2020 despite several unmet deadlines in the past. Speaking during a meeting with Forum Delta South Presidents General convened at the instance of the Special Adviser to the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Rural and Community Development, Mr Emmanuel Okoro in Oleh, President-General of Isoko Development Union, IDU, Chief Amadhe Iduh lamented the health, environmental and economic consequences of gas flaring. ALSO READ: FG, IOCs urged to make HOSTCOM Joint Venture partners Iduh who spoke on behalf of forum, requested the state government to protect the interest of the communities in the operations of oil companies in the area. He said: ‘’Government should have the willpower to ensure that the year 2020 deadline for the cessation of gas-flaring is obeyed and convert the gas flared to electricity. This is because, although the bulk of Nigeria’s wealth is domiciled here, almost all communities in Delta South are living in darkness.” He lamented the wanton killings of their people by suspected herdsmen, urging government to as a matter of urgency intervene to ensure the security of lives and property of its citizens and avoid further carnages. Addressing the people, Okoro said the initiative was to interact with the grassroots through leaders of ethnic nationalities across the state to know their needs and convey same to government. Okoro who was pioneer Speaker of Delta State House of Assembly, said Governor Okowa was committed to the development of rural communities. He said the essence of the meeting was to improve community participation in government policies and for the communities to take ownership and management of government projects sited in their domains. Vanguard Reformed Niger Delta Avengers, RNDA, and nine other militant groups have called on the Federal Government to issue 10 licences to the Host Communities of Nigeria, HOSTCOM, for the take off of modular refineries in the Niger Delta. September 13, 2017 In "News" The Itsekiri Congress UK has urged all aspirants vying for the Delta South Senatorial District seat in the forthcoming elections to play by the rules of engagement and not overheat the polity, noting that elections can be peaceful, cordial, transparent and devoid of violence and wanton killings of innocent citizens. September 13, 2018 In "News" The Federal Government has constructed a borehole with overhead tank at the oil-rich Gelegele Community in Edo to put an end to many years of water scarcity in the community. June 6, 2017 In "News"