THE Anambra State Police command has arrested two persons for allegedly killing a Facebook friend and dumping the corpse in the bush in Nanka, Orumba North local government area of the state. Also yesterday, the command paraded 108 suspected cultists following a raid in various parts of the state. The state Commissioner of Police, Mr. John Abang said the two persons robbed their victim of valuables before killing him and then dumped his body in the bush. Abang, who spoke through the Command’s public relations officer, Mr. Haruna Mohammed, said the suspects, Angus Chukwebuka Nwankwo and Chidiebere Omeyi lured the deceased from Owerri, Imo State to Nanka where they killed him. He said: “Following intelligence report, Puff Adder operatives in conjunction with the Command’s Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS), arrested Angus Chukwebuka Nwankwo (30) and Chidiebere Omeyi (20) at Nanka. “The suspects had on 27/2/2020 lured a Facebook user simply identified as Willswags from Owerri in Imo State to Nanka. After robbing the victim of his belongings, suspects allegedly killed and dumped his body inside the bush. “The suspects have confessed to the crime and led police to the bush in Nanka where the decomposing body of the victim was found. The corpse has been deposited at the mortuary for autopsy.” According to the CP, a Tecno phone belonging to the deceased was recovered from the suspects, adding that they would be charged to court after investigations. He said that of the 108 suspects paraded, 34 were screened out, 20 were charged to court, while 21 are under aged. Exhibits recovered from them, according to him, include ten locally made pistols,11 machetes , nine cartridges, nine battle axes, one fabricated gun, three cult regalia, eight daggers, three Barrets and three swords. Also recovered from them were seven improvised bunkers for inhaling substances suspected to be cocaine. Vanguard The Police Command in Anambra on Monday paraded one Monday Onyikwa from Umuefi Village, Nteje in Oyi Local Council Area for allegedly selling a six-year- old girl for ritual purposes. March 25, 2019 In "News" The Police Command in Anambra said it had arrested 95 suspected cultists and three suspected members of an armed robbery syndicate in the state. May 12, 2019 In "News" THE Anambra State police command yesterday paraded 48 suspected cultists who allegedly belong to the notorious Vikings Confraternity. Also paraded were two native doctors said to be allegedly preparing charms for armed robbers and kidnappers. November 20, 2015 In "News"