Enyimba midfielder Ekundayo Ojo and Abia Comets’ Benjamin Iluyomade have been released, three days after their abduction. An official statement from the Nigeria Professional Football League club said that both players “were released late Wednesday night, following combined efforts of Enyimba Football Club and families of the players”. Enyimba chairman Felix Anyansi-Agwu told ESPN that “we are extremely relieved”. “We were all traumatized by the incident, this was something that nobody could predict, or wished for, and we are very relieved now that they are back safe.” As is the general, unspoken policy in Nigeria, Enyimba would not confirm if any ransom was paid. Anyansi-Agwu said only that the club and the families had worked together to get the players released. “I think we should be thankful that the players are back and safe,” Anyansi-Agwu said. “It is not like they went out to do the wrong thing and got caught up. They were given a break because of the coronavirus outbreak and choose to go home to spend the time with their families only to run into this unexpected situation. “We thank God that they are now out of it.” Both players were on their way to Akure in south-western Nigeria. They were driving in Ojo’s car with Emmanuel James, another Enyimba player, when their vehicle, along with other commercial vehicles on the route, ran into armed gunmen along the Benin-two expressway. James managed to escape, as Ojo and Iluyomade were abducted. The players have been reunited with their families. Vanguard Chairman of Enyimba Football Club, Chief Felix Anyansi-Agwu has charged the former African Champions to remain optimistic about the chances of defying all odds to overturn their semifinal first leg loss and book a place in the final of this season’s CAF Confederation Cup. October 21, 2018 In "Sports" Enyimba chairman Felix Anyansi-Agwu has sounded a loud warning to his players and technical crew that in spite of a 3-0 first leg win over Etoile du Sahel of Tunisia, much work still has to be done to pick the lucrative group stage ticket. April 19, 2016 In "Sports" The Government of Abia State has presented the State’s second highest honour to the chairman of two –time CAF Champions League winners Enyimba Football Club of Aba, Chief Felix Anyansi-Agwu. September 3, 2018 In "Sports"