 ABUJA: The All Progressives Congress APC has disclosed of its resolve to respect Wednesday’s order of a Federal Capital Territory FCT High Court which suspended its National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Acting National Secretary of the party, Mr Victor Giadom disclosed this at a news conference Wednesday evening at the national secretariat of the party. This came as there was heavy security presence at the national secretariat. Soon after the court judgment there was heavy police presence at Blantyre street, where the national secretariat is located. The policemen had a hard time dismissing a group of protesters who had besieged the area to protest against Oshiomhole. The security unit of the party had at about 6:55pm asked journalists to evacuate the premises, saying the secretariat was going to be locked until 10am on Thursday. The police detachment at the secretariat had consequently taken over the security of the area. While speaking with journalists, Giadom said; “As a party we are aware of the injunction. As a law abiding party we will respect all lawful court orders. Very soon, the National Working Committee will meet and you will hear further from the party. I am trying to say that the All Progressives Congress will respect all lawful court orders. We will soon do that”. The media interface with Giadom went thus: Journalists: Are you saying the national chairman is on suspension? Giadom: Like I did say, there is a court injunction and it is binding on us as a party to respect all the court injunction. Journalists: Is the party sourcing for any replacement? Giadom: That is not within my powers. Journalists: Are you aware if any meeting going on at Aso Drive (Oshiomhole’s private office)? Giadom: Not to my knowledge. We haven’t met. Like I did say, the NWC will very soon convoke a meeting. Journalists: Why the heavy security at the secretariat? Giadom: There is nothing new about that. There has always been security at the National Secretariat of the party. The nationwide state congresses of the All Progressives Congress (APC) scheduled for May 19 are yet to start in the four South-South states of Edo, Akwa Ibom, Cross River and Rivers. May 19, 2018 In "News" There was confusion in Yenagoa, yesterday, as the rescheduled governorship primary election of All Progressives Congress, APC, did not hold. September 30, 2015 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) calls on the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, to immediately pull in the factional National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, for questioning and prosecution for incitement. February 15, 2020 In "News"