The coronavirus death toll in Spain surged to 2,182 after 462 people died within 24 hours, the health ministry said on Monday. The death rate showed a 27-percent increase in the figures released a day earlier, with the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 rising to 33,089 in Spain, one of the worst-hit countries in the world after China and Italy. Despite an unprecedented national lockdown which was put in place on March 14, the number of deaths and infections have spiralled in Spain, with the figures growing as the country steps up its capacity for testing. And the lockdown, which was initially put in place for two weeks, will be extended until April 11 to try to curb the spread, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said — in a measure which will be put to parliament on Tuesday. The rise in infections in this country of 46 million people has brought Spain’s healthcare system to the brink of collapse, particularly in Madrid, the worst-hit area, which has registered 10,575 cases, and where 1,263 people have died — accounting for 58 percent of the national death toll. Some 3,910 healthcare workers have tested positive for the virus, or around 12 percent of those infected, the health ministry’s emergencies coordinator Fernando Simon said. Officials have repeatedly warned that the number of deaths and infections would continue to rise this week and that the worst was yet to come. “We have yet to see the impact of the strongest, most damaging wave, which will test our material and moral capacities to the limit, as well as our spirit as a society,” Sanchez said on Sunday. In terms of people who have recovered, government figures show there are currently 3,355 cases, just over 60 percent of whom are in Madrid. AFP Vanguard Nigeria News A quarter of the Italian population was in lockdown on Sunday as the government took drastic steps to stop the spread of the deadly coronavirus sweeping the globe, while Iran recorded another 49 deaths and the national airline suspended flights to Europe. Italy's COVID-19 death count is now 233, more… March 8, 2020 In "Foreign" The COVID-19 pandemic is gaining ground in Nigeria. For the first time ever, millions of Nigerians are having an encounter of the first kind with a pandemic. March 21, 2020 In "Health" Qatar has confirmed its first case of coronavirus, state media reported on Saturday, after a 36-year-old Qatari man who was evacuated to Doha from Iran tested positive. February 29, 2020 In "News"