The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has chastised the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for its “senseless” decision to hold political rallies at a time Nigeria and other countries were encouraging social distancing as a way of controlling the spread of Coronavirus. “At a time when countries all over the world are taking deliberate, coordinated and concerted measures to contain the global outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVlD-19), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) sees the need to hold a senseless rally,” APC said yesterday in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu. According to the APC: “Nigeria just cancelled the scheduled National Sports Festival, NYSC camps have closed down nationwide, a travel ban on government officials is in place, restricted entry into the country for travellers from 13 countries is in effect, improved emergency medical response across the country is in place among other social distancing steps being taken to protect our country. “On Wednesday, five new cases were announced in the country and efforts are already underway to track persons who have had contact with these confirmed cases. “The PDP’s thoughtless action is shockingly at variance with the current world effort to contain this pandemic”, it added. The ruling party said events in most countries of the world and instructions being given by the Nigerian government “do not support this criminal activity”. “Obviously, the PDP is incapable of applying itself to rules and commonsense. “Even as the APC-led government is making efforts to put in place a new national order for good governance and patriotic citizenship, PDP, living up to its legendary infamy, has continued in its malicious ways. “How could any group choose this period to pull a crowd together? What is at stake at this moment that requires this level of risk-taking? Why do the leaders of PDP not realise this action is capable of putting the entire country in jeopardy? “For how long would this country put up with a badly behaved and clueless opposition party with an irredeemable tendency for taking actions that violate all known moral principles? This is a new low, even for the PDP’s abysmal standards. “We call on well-meaning Nigerians to plead with the PDP leaders to be responsible for once. This is a time for them to apply some intelligence to their actions,” APC added. Vanguard The All Progressives Congress, APC, and Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, were yesterday locked in a war of words over the index case of coronavirus recorded in Lagos last weekend. March 2, 2020 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Sunday in Abuja officially announced the "obituary" of the country's main opposition, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), lamenting that though a democratic Nigeria needs a vibrant opposition to hold the ruling party accountable, it was unfortunate that the PDP and… October 13, 2019 In "News" The ruling All Progressives Congress APC has asked the Peoples Democratic Party PDP to focus on her own campaigns and stop worrying about when the ruling party would constitute its own campaign council. December 16, 2018 In "News"