The Christian Elders Forum of Northern States, NOSCEF, after its executive meeting  in Kaduna, weekend, expressed sadness that killings had continued in the north when almost all the security chiefs were from the region. Rising from its executive meeting, NOSCEF expressed deep concern over the increasing activities of bandits and terrorists occasioned by widespread killings across the nation. The group in a statement by Elder Ejoga Inalegwu, Chairman, NOSCEF, said: ‘’The most recent of these killings took place in Garkida, Adamawa State, Igabi and Giwa in Kaduna State and Kwande Local Government Area of Benue State, among others. “NOSCEF joins other patriotic Nigerians in condemning the unending insecurity, which has resulted in so much loss of lives and destruction of property. ‘’The failure of security apparatus in place calls for a complete overhaul of the security architecture, reflecting the diversity of the nation, that will win the confidence of the people. “Ironically, almost all the security chiefs are from a section of the country which is worst hit by the criminals who are unleashing mayhem on the people. ‘’The spate of killings and insecurity has continued to worsen, thereby destroying economic and social activity of the people. “NOSCEF is also disappointed about the seeming inability of the Federal Government to remedy the situation by taking far-reaching steps to address it. ‘’NOSCEF also wishes to state that it has not seen any attempt by the Federal Government to remedy the skewed appointments that have failed to reflect the religious and ethnic diversity of the nation. Rather, we continue to witness the replacement of even the few appointees outside the nepotistic enclave by those already dominating. Lauds Gov Zulum “The appointments have been particularly unfair to the northern Christians. We commend the Governor of Borno State, Prof. Babagana Zulum, for identifying and standing with his people against terrorism, his openness to all and commitment to good governance. “We appeal to the northern governors to emulate their South West counterparts, who recently established a joint security outfit known as ‘Amotekun’ to address security challenges facing their region, by setting up a similar outfit in the north to put an end to the menace of terrorism and banditry, which is ravaging the north and destroying her socio economic activities. “Since the Federal Government has failed in carrying out its constitutional responsibility of securing lives and property of its citizens, the governors must evolve ways of providing security for their people. On Leah Sharibu “Furthermore, we expectantly still await the Federal Government to facilitate the release of Leah Sharibu, who has been in captivity in the hands of  Boko Haram for over two years, without forgetting the fate of the remaining Chibok girls also in their custody. “We appeal to all Nigerians to continue to pray for our dear nation for God’s intervention.” Vanguard The Vice President, Namadi Sambo and two Northern Christian associations, Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN in the 19 northern states and Abuja as well as the Christian Elders’ Forum of Northern States, NOSCEF, yesterday, condemned the murder of popular Islamic scholar and preacher, Sheikh Muhammad Albani, in Zaria, Kaduna State,… February 4, 2014 In "News" The Northern States Christians Elders’ Forum, NOSCEF, weekend, accused some Northern Muslim elders of shielding Muslim terrorists and their sponsors. May 7, 2012 In "News" PEEVED by the huge number of casualties in a recent attack by the proscribed Islamic sect, Boko Haram and the vicious attacks on residents of Konduga in Borno State, the Northern States Christian Elders Forum (NOSCEF) has called on the newly inaugurated service chiefs, especially the Chief of Defence Staff,… February 15, 2014 In "News"