Aliko Dangote and Herbert Wigwe are spearheading a coalition of Organised Private Sector, OPS, to support the Federal Government’s ongoing efforts to tackle the coronavirus (COVID-19) menace sweeping across the country. This gesture is in addition to the N200 million earlier pledged by the Aliko Dangote Foundation, ADF, to help curb its spread. The initiative, which is called Coalition Against Coronavirus, COCAVID, will involve the erection of fully-equipped medical tents to house patients and serve as training, testing, isolation and treatment centres, with an additional facility also provided in Victoria Island, Lagos. The COCAVID, led by Dangote Industries Limited and Access Bank Group in collaboration with Zenith Bank, GTBank, MTN, ITB and others, is tasked with the responsibility of mobilising the private sector thought leadership and resources; creating public awareness, and directing support to private and public healthcare institutions. Giving details of the coalition, President of Dangote Industries Limited, Aliko Dangote, said: “ADF is pulling resources across industries to provide technical and operational support while providing funding and building advocacy through aggressive awareness drives. “The coalition is working with Lagos State government to erect fully-equipped medical tents that will serve as training, testing, isolation and treatment centres. We are also providing an additional facility in Victoria Island, Lagos.” He assured that these centres will be fully equipped with medical supplies and trained personnel to cater for patients who may become affected. He said: “In addition, we will be bringing in experts from around the world to provide technical and training support. “COVID-19 affects us all and threatens our collective health (economic, social, psychological) and physical well-being. Hence, the urgent need to collaborate and work together to beat this common enemy. The task ahead is daunting and bigger than any one organisation. To win this battle, it is critical we all come together as one.” Vanguard “I built a conglomerate and emerged the richest black man in the world in 2008 but it didn’t happen overnight. It took me 30 years to get to where I am today. Youths of today aspire to be like me but they want to achieve it overnight. It’s not going… March 22, 2014 In "Special Report" Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF) has pledged N200 million to support the Federal Government’s effort at containing the spread of Coronavirus in the country. Ms. Zouera Youssoufou, Chief Executive Officer, Aliko Dangote Foundation, in a statement on Tuesday in Lagos, said the donation was part of the Foundation’s cardinal objective. Youssoufou… March 4, 2020 In "News" LAGOS—President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, has said the poor performance of the country’s power sector was hindering growth of the economy. June 10, 2019 In "News"