The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has ordered that all orientation camps across Nigeria be shut as preventive and precautionary measures against coronavirus. The ongoing orientation for Batch A Stream 1 corps members, which was supposed to end 30, March 2020 has now been cut short  12 days earlier. Vanguard reached out to some corps members across Nigeria who confirmed the news. They said they were expecting their posting letters to their various Place of Primary Assignments (PPA) Wednesday morning. A statement by NYSC management reads: “Sequel to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic which led to the cancellation of the national sports festival, management of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme wishes to announce the suspension of the on-going orientation course for the 2020 Batch “A” stream 1 corps members,” the statement read. “Therefore, the corps members shall be posted to commence their primary assignments forthwith, while they shall be invited back to the orientation camps when the situation improves, just like it happened a few years ago when the nation was confronted by the Ebola virus threat. “Management wishes to state that no corps member or camp official has contracted the virus.” Vanguard  The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has called for the postponement of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Batch A orientation camp due to the outbreak of the coronavirus in the country. The Director of the group, Prof. Ishaq Akintola made the call in a statement issued in Lagos on Wednesday.… March 11, 2020 In "News" By Femi Bolaji No fewer than 33 Batch A Corps members undergoing their three weeks orientation course at the permanent orientation camp of the National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, in Sibre, outskirt of Jalingo, Taraba State capital were hospitalised following a heavy rainstorm that destroyed buildings and other valuables on… April 15, 2019 In "News" Unidentified gunmen on Wednesday kidnapped five National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members who were travelling to their orientation camps in Akwa Ibom and Rivers states. October 26, 2018 In "News"