An Ilorin Magistrates’ Court on Thursday remanded three men, Mutiu Adebola, Gbenga Olusayo and John Samuel, accused of gang-raping a 13-year-old girl in correctional service custody. The defendants are facing trial on a four-count charge of criminal conspiracy, procuring of minor girl, rape and gross indecency. The Magistrate, Mrs Sade Lawal, who ordered the defendants to be remanded at Oke-kura Correctional Centre, Ilorin, adjourned the case until April 18, for further mention. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the case was reported to the Anti-human trafficking Unit of Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps, Kwara State Command, by the victim’s father,  Mr Lawal Olanrewaju, of Airport area, Ilorin. According to Olanrewaju, the defendants gang-raped the victim in an uncompleted building on Feb. 25 at Airport area of the town. He said that the defendants also took the victim to the Spring Hotel and Blue Orange Guest Inn where they had canal knowledge of her. Investigation at the NSCDC office revealed that attendants of the said hotels, Adeyemi Sunday and Kasheem Babalola, were also facing trial on the same charge for having knowledge of the said act and not reporting to the police. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court, on Monday, ordered that a 22-year-old man, Johnson Alazi, who allegedly raped a 15-year-old girl, be remanded in a correctional centre, pending legal advice. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs G.O. Anifowoshe, who did not take the plea of the accused, ordered that he be remanded in Kirikiri,… November 4, 2019 In "News" An Ikorodu Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State on Friday, December 13, remanded three men who allegedly defiled their neighbour’s 13-year-old daughter in correctional custody. The three defendants, Alex Michael, 19; Yakub Isiaka, 35 and Quam Adeshina, 30, are facing a two-count charge of conspiracy and defilement. The court, however,… December 15, 2019 In "Metro" An Ebonyi Magistrate’s Court, in Abakaliki, on Tuesday remanded Desmond Eze, 25, in custody at the correctional centre over alleged rape of a 17-year-old girl (names withheld). The accused, whose address was not provided, is standing trial before Magistrate Nnenna Onuoha. Onuoha said that the court lacked jurisdiction to hear… December 11, 2019 In "News"