The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has announced the closure of three International airports in the country as part of measures to combat the spread of coronavirus. Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Chairman of the Taskforce, Boss Mustapha, who disclosed this in a   statement on Friday stated that “effective from Saturday 21st March, 2020 midnight, the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano; Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu and the Port-Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa will be closed to all international flights”. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Sanwo-Olu visits airport to assess screening of inbound passengers He however said the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja and the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos will remain opened to and accept international flights irrespective of the type of operations. “All stakeholders are enjoined to collaborate with Port Health Services in the identification of suspects/persons at points of entry and to bring such persons to the attention of Port Health Officers for appropriate action. “Meanwhile, the PTF urges all Nigerians to remain calm and cooperate with the instructions already issued by the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) and Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on modes of worship and gatherings at this time not exceeding fifty (50) persons. “The PTF assures Nigerians that adequate and appropriate information will be made available in due course”, the statement added. Vanguard The Federal Government on Friday announced restriction of international flights to Murtala Muhammad International Airport, Lagos and Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Enahire, who disclosed this to journalists, said the move was part of precautionary measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria.… March 20, 2020 In "News" In a bid to protect the state against any case of the deadly CoronaVirus disease (COVID-19), the Governor Sir Ben Ayade has intensified efforts towards prevention by adopting strict screening  exercise at all entry points to the State such as, land boarders, airports, as well as seaports. February 29, 2020 In "News" ABUJA—AS a result of the need to deepen Nigeria’s response to the threats posed by coronavirus (COVID-19) infection currently ravaging countries globally, the Federal Government has inaugurated a Presidential Task Force on the control of the disease. March 18, 2020 In "News"