PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has written the Senate, seeking for amendment of the 2019 Finance Act  to formally give it a legal framework that the implementation date for the increase of Value Added Tax, VAT  from 5% to 7.5% is 1st of February 2020. In the letter dated 6th March, 2020, received 10th March,2020  and addressed to the President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, President Buhari is also seeking for an Amendment of the Finance Act to exempt Animal Feeds as part of Basic Food items from the Value Added Tax, VAT. According to the letter read by the President of the Senate during plenary yesterday, that Animal Feeds be included in the list of Basic Food ltems that are exempted from Value Added Tax forms part of the tax holiday incentive for agriculture, by targeting this incentive to small and medium sized companies that invest in primary crop, IivestocK, forestry and fishing agricultural production. The President said that the incentive would also to be administered by Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission pursuant to the Industrial Development (Income Tax Reliet) Act. READ ALSO: Senate to override Buhari’s Veto on constitution amendment Buhari’s letter read, “Pursuant to Sections 58 and 59 of Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria1 999 (as amended), I formally request that the Finance Act, 2019 (Amendment) Bill, be considered by the Senate, for passage into law. “This Bill seeks to amend the Finance Act, 2019, as recently passed by the National Assembly, by Clarifying: “That the administrative effective date for the increase in Value Added Tax from 5% to 7.5% is the 1st of February 2020; “That “Animal Feeds are included in the list of Basic Food ltems that are exempted from Value Added Tax; and Aspects of the tax holiday incentive for agriculture, by targeting this incentive to small and medium sized companies that invest in primary crop, IivestocK, forestry and fishing agricultural production. This incentive is also to be administered by Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission pursuant to the Industrial Development (Income Tax Reliet) Act. “While I trust that this Bil will be favourably considered for passage into law by the National Assembly so as to support the implementation of the 2020 Federal Budget. Please accept, dstinguished Senate President, the assurances of my highest consideration.” Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja Sanitary Pads are among the list of 20 basic food items in the Finance Act 2019 exempted from the new 7.5 Valued Added Tax, VAT expected to take effect from February this year. President Muhammadu Buhari had penultimate week signed the Finance Act to improve… January 20, 2020 In "Business" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru WITH the signing of the Finance Bill, 2020 into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, Nigerians will begin to pay the new increment of 7.5 per cent as Value Added Tax (VAT). President Buhari assented to the bill barely a month after its passage by the National Assembly… January 15, 2020 In "Business" By Henry Umoru The Senate on Thursday passed the Finance Bill presented to it by President Muhammadu Buhari to raise the country's Value Added  Tax(VAT) from 5 to 7.5 percent. The bill has five strategic objectives of promoting fiscal equity, reforming domestic tax laws and raising revenue. The Bill… November 21, 2019 In "News"