The Federal High Court in Kano, on Friday, restrained the Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-corruption Commission from investigating Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II over alleged N2.2 billion land scam. The commission, on Thursday, had granted an extension for the appearance of Emir on Monday, March 9. The monarch, on Friday, filed an ex parte motion before the court against Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission (first respondent), Muhyi Magaji Rimingado, Attorney-General, Kano State and the governor as second, third and fourth respondents, respectively. ALSO READ: New Emirates: Court orders Ganduje, Emir Sanusi to maintain status quo Sanusi, through his counsel, led by Nureini Jimoh, prayed the court to restrain Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission and its Chairman, Muhuyi  Rimingado, from investigating the affairs (of the applicant) pending the hearing of the originating motion. Justice Lewis Allagoa granted the prayer of the monarch and ordered that the status quo be maintained in the interim, pending the hearing and determination of the originating motions. It also held that “the respondents are to be served with the order of the court made in this suit and other processes through the first respondent (Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission).” He, therefore, adjourned the matter until March 18, for hearing. The anti-graft agency had earlier invited the Emir to appear before it on Thursday, March 5, to defend himself on the fresh allegation. However, the Emir wrote to the Commission through his lawyers,  Dikko and Mahmoud, requesting an extension time for him to appear on March 25, which the commission rejected and gave him Monday, March 9, by 11a.m., to appear. Vanguard A Federal High Court sitting in Kano on Tuesday granted an order restraining Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje and the State Public Complaints and Anti Corruption Commission from acting on the preliminary report on alleged misappropriation of N3.4 billion by the Kano Emirate Council. June 18, 2019 In "News" As commission ‘unintentionally” summons Sanusi’s wife over alleged misappropriation of N3.4bn June 21, 2019 In "News" The Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-corruption Commission says it is exploring suitable options at its disposal following the ruling delivered by a Kano Federal High Court. February 24, 2020 In "News"