Airtel Nigeria has also cried out that road constructions in Lagos and other parts of the country are negatively impacting on its network performance due to the high level of cuts they give to its fibre cables. The telco said that between July last year and this February, it has experienced 1022 fibre cuts, accounting for why its quality of services, sometimes, drop. The telco said this was in addition to several other challenges including theft of its generating sets, inverter batteries and sometimes the entire base station facilities its network ride on. It called on the Federal Government to urgently deal with the menace of vandalism, insecurity and insurgency, otherwise the current spate of dropped calls experienced by some telecommunications consumers would continue. Speaking, yesterday, at a media briefing in Ikoyi, Lagos, the Director of Corporate Communications & CSR, Airtel Nigeria, Emeka Oparah, noted that the declaration of telecoms infrastructure as Critical National infrastructure by the government would go a long way in helping to safeguard telecoms infrastructure. According to him, 405 cases of the fibre cut were as a result of road rehabilitation activities by construction workers while 617 cases were due to vandalism. Oparah, appealed that the Government should come to the aid of telecoms operators as these activities result in dropped calls, poor network quality, network congestion and poor user experience for telecommunications subscribers across the country. He also urged the federal and state governments to hasten the approval process for right of way for fibre deployment as well as quicken the Environmental Impact Analysis (EIA) approval process, noting that these actions would help solve the problem of network congestion and network failure. Also, the Nigerian Communications Commission Director, Technical Services, Bako Wakil, said certainly the challenges might persist.Wakil said in Nigeria, network infrastructure are being vandalised and this has resulted into high rates of drop calls on the network.He said that the NCC had been working with the National Assembly, other ministries and security agencies to ensure that the bill at the assembly is passed into law and offenders prosecuted. According to him, NCC will ensure services are improved by ensuring that the environment becomes conducive. The Vice President, Network Operations, Airtel Nigeria, Dr.AdedoyinAdeola, lamented that telecoms installations across the country are repeatedly vandalised, stolen, bombed and destroyed with reckless abandon, creating myriad of problems for the network operators as well as the telecommunications consumers. VANGUARD Airtel Nigeria, on Thursday, cried out that road constructions in Lagos and other parts of the country are negatively impacting on its network due to the high level of cuts they give to its fibre cables. February 27, 2020 In "News" Two years after it took over an existing network, Airtel Nigeria has grown its subscriber base by 31% or additional five and half million persons to hit 20 million subscribers. August 9, 2012 In "News" Airtel Nigeria has attributed flooding and attacks on its installations to the poor network services experienced recently. It said attacks on its 53 installations have disrupted operations in 193 sites across the Northern part of Nigeria. November 5, 2012 In "Finance"