To strengthen national response to COVID-19 in Nigeria, Industrialist and Founder of BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, has announced a donation of N1billion cash through the BUA Foundation and has also placed an order for additional donation of equipment and medical supplies, including testing kits and medical protective gear to nine states in Nigeria. These medical supplies were being airfreighted and would arrive Nigeria as soon as possible. States to benefit include Lagos, Kano, Adamawa, Edo, Kwara, Rivers, Abia, Akwa-Ibom and Sokoto. Speaking on the donation, Abdul Samad Rabiu, Chairman of BUA Group, said it was very important for the private sector to support the government’s effort to curb the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic, whilst also adding that the N1billion donation would be done through the Central Bank of Nigeria-led ‘Private Sector Coalition Committee Against COVID-19’. “This donation will not only provide additional needed funds to the government and NCDC’s efforts but will also serve to protect healthcare and medical workers on the frontlines of fighting the pandemic. “In addition to donating the ordered medical supplies and equipment to the two most populated states in Northern and Southern Nigeria, we have also selected 7 states across all geopolitical regions in Nigeria where significant members of the BUA workforce and their families are situated to help preparedness and response to the challenges posed by the pandemic. Each of these 9 states will receive about 100,000  protective facemasks, 1000 high grade medical protection and isolation gear, 2000 protective goggles, 1000 gloves  and 1000 testing kits amongst other things.” Rabiu added. Vanguard The Founder of BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, on Thursday donated N1billion to support the Federal Government’s bid to effectively tackle the coronavirus scourge in the country. Rabiu, who released the funds through the BUA Foundation, also donated testing kits and medical protective gear to nine states in the country.… March 26, 2020 In "News" BUA Group, one of Africa’s largest infrastructure companies has announced its acquisition of majority shareholding in P.W.  Nigeria Limited – one of Nigeria’s largest construction, engineering and mining companies. According to BUA, this was necessary to further deepen its investments in the infrastructure business in Sub-Saharan Africa. Speaking on the… March 22, 2020 In "Business" BUA Group has announced its acquisition of majority shareholding in P.W.  Nigeria Limited, one of Nigeria’s leading construction, engineering and mining companies. March 23, 2020 In "News"