The Federal government has been called upon to ensure the provision of constant electricity and quality road networks in order to guarantee smooth business environment in the country. Ogedengbe Bright Uduimho, Chief Executive Officer, Big Announcement Entertainment Records, who spoke to Vanguard on the key indices needed to improve the Ease of Doing Business in the country, said that such measures would ensure smooth running of businesses. He lamented that the Nigeria’s business environment is not favourable for many youths, saying that it has added in increasing the level of unemployment among the youths. “Firstly, constant electricity is the way forward and I believe that if the government can do just that for us, businesses would run smoothly for everyone in the country. Secondly, there should be good roads to run day to day activities,” he said. Uduimho, who is the pioneer president of Etsako in Diaspora Cape Town, South Africa, also cautioned against the spread of misinformation on Coronavirus, saying that it could impact negatively on businesses. He advised Nigerians to maintain regular and routine hand wash and also follow good respiratory hygiene. “People must not abuse social media and indulge in spreading misinformation that could cause fear and panic. I believe that the Ministry of Health will continue to provide updates and will initiate all measures required to prevent the spread in Nigeria,” he said. Vanguard The Federal and state governments have been charged to ensure the provision of constant electricity and quality road networks in order to guarantee friendlier business environment in the country. February 12, 2020 In "News" The ever-pressing need to break the ground in fast-tracking industrialisation and economic diversification has led many state governments to tinker with diverse industrial models, with a number of them recording negligible successes. June 3, 2019 In "Business" Lack of critical infrastructure has been the bane of economic development in Nigeria for decades. This has remained an intractable problem that successive governments at the federal and state levels have had to tackle, with varying degrees of success. December 28, 2018 In "News"