A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ebun Olu-Adegboruwa (SAN), said on Sunday President Muhammadu Buhari has no power to restrict movement in Lagos and Abuja. In a statement made available to Vanguard, Adegboruwa said: “The President has no powers to restrict the movement of persons without recourse to the National Assembly. The President has not invoked his powers under the Constitution to declare any state of emergency, which must be approved by the National Assembly. “We are running a constitutional democracy and it is illegal for the President to take over the affairs of any State of the Federation without the express consent of the people of that State through their elected representatives. “It is only the Governor of the State through the House of Assembly of the State that can make any declaration concerning the people of that State. Little wonder that the President could not cite any law that he relied upon for his declaration. “I support every measure taken to contain the Coronavirus pandemic but such must be in accordance with the law. If we allow this to stay, then tomorrow the President may just impose a total restriction on all states of the federation for whatever reason. “I humbly urge the President to reverse the restrictions and work with the States concerned in accordance with the laws of our land. “Also, there must be measures put in place to address the financial consequences of the proposed shutdown, especially for small scale businesses, those who depend on daily earnings and the needy and vulnerable members of the societies to be affected.”  Vanguard A rights activist and lawyer, Mr. Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, has said that the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Mohammad Adamu has no constitutional powers to restrict the movement of Nigerians on election days, citing a High Court order to back his position. February 18, 2019 In "News" THE Federal Government has described the hoopla generated by President Muhammadu Buhari’s letter to the National Assembly, in which he said Vice President Yemi Osinbajo will coordinate the activities of the government in his absence, as a needless distraction. May 11, 2017 In "Headlines" Human rights lawyer, Mr. Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, Saturday, asked the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA to indefinitely boycott the courts to protest the invasion of the homes judges by operatives of the Department of State Services, DSS. October 8, 2016 In "News"