The Presidency on Saturday dismissed reports that President Muhammadu Buhari has approved N30,000 relief package to be given to every Nigerian with a verified Bank Verification Number (BVN) to cushion hardships occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. The President’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, had reportedly announced the presidential approval of the package in a statement. “The President announced the relief package to be given out N30,000 to every Nigerian who has a verified BVN account to ease pressure posed by the order to lockdown economic activities, “The N30,000 relief fund will be given to every Nigerian with verified BVN account. I am sure the fund will go a long way to help Nigerians stock up their home during the stay-at-home order by the Government,” the presidential aide was quoted as saying in the statement. However, he had dismissed the purported approval by the President on his Twitter handle, saying it was concocted by” fake news peddlers.” Adesina said: “Fake news peddlers have concocted a statement, purportedly issued by me, saying FG will pay N30,000 to each Nigerian with BVN, to help them stock up before an impending national lockdown. Not me.” (NAN)  Vanguard   The Presidency on Saturday debunked the report on social media that N30, 000 has been approved for each Nigerian with a Bank Verification Number, BVN, as a palliative for cushioning the effect of stay at home order to stop the spread of COVID-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic. March 28, 2020 In "News" THE Presidency and the national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, were sharply divided, yesterday, over the sources of the N804.7 billion relief package being worked out to bail out many states of the country from their unpaid salaries burden. July 8, 2015 In "Headlines" TO end the lingering and back-breaking burden of unpaid workers’ salaries in several states of the country, President Muhammadu Buhari has approved a comprehensive relief package. July 7, 2015 In "Headlines"