The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has said National Broadcasting Commission, NBC, has commenced the implementation of reforms approved by the President to strengthen NBC’s regulatory role and make it more effective. The minister disclosed this at a meeting with the Filmic Group, a platform for creative industry practitioners comprising movie producers, theatre directors and content producers, among others. “I can confirm to you that the current NBC management and board have begun the actual implementation process. “I am reliably informed by the Acting Director-General of NBC, who is here with us, that in the next two weeks, there will be a stakeholder validation conference to endorse the new initiatives in the industry. “After that the necessary amendments to the Broadcasting Code on Monopoly and Anti-Competition, unwholesome content on social media and other amendments will be published for the public and the industry.” Mohammed added that the process for the amendment of the NBC Act has begun and that an Executive Bill will soon be sent to the National Assembly for further legislative action. ALSO READ: Nigeria’s creative industry needs urgent financing —  Herbert Wigwe On improved welfare package for the staff of the NBC, Alhaji Mohammed said the Board of the Commission has received the approved recommendations and is in the process of implementation. The Minister, who said the government has shown good faith on the reform of the broadcast industry in order to place it in good stead to achieve its full potentials, urged the stakeholders to partner with the government in order to develop a broadcast industry that will continue to create jobs and reward talents. His words: “You can now see that this reform is not a fluke. I, therefore, want to challenge your group, and other stakeholders, to continue to cooperate with the industry regulator in order to ensure faithful implementation of the recommendations.” In his remarks, one of the leaders of the Filmic Group and a movie producer, Mr. Mahmoud Alli-Balogun, thanked the minister for the implementation of policies aimed at revolutionising the creative industry and unlocking its huge potentials for wealth creation and employment generation. Another member, Mr. Obi Asika, said with the unfolding of the new policies in the broadcasting industry, within the next couple of years, 50 new viable channels could be floated to provide entertainment and create more jobs, in view of the nation’s huge market and the commitment of the industry players. Meanwhile, the NBC Reforms Implementation Committee submitted its report to the Minister on November 19, 2019 with far-reaching recommendations aimed at strengthening the regulatory role of the Commission and unlocking the creative ability of Nigerians by abolishing monopoly and anti-competition in the broadcast industry. The Acting Director-General of the NBC, Professor Armstrong Idachaba, who chaired the Committee, accompanied the Minister to the meeting with the Filmic Group. Vanguard Inaugurates implementation 7-man implementation c’ttee By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Thursday, disclosed that broadcast stations that air hate speech and inciting comments will attract N5 million fine. Mohammed stated this during the inauguration of the 7-man Implementation Reforms Committee of the… October 10, 2019 In "News" By Gabriel Ewepu The minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Thursday, disclosed that broadcast stations that air hate speech and inciting comments will attract N5 million fine. Mohammed stated this during the inauguration of 7-man Implementation Reforms Committee of the National Broadcasting Commission, NBC, towards repositioning the broadcast… October 10, 2019 In "News" The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, says the Federal Government is determined to end all forms of monopoly in broadcasting because it is detrimental to the actualization of the immense potential in the industry. October 20, 2019 In "News"