The US Food and Drug Administration has authorised the use of the first rapid diagnostic test that could detect the coronavirus in approximately 45 minutes. Tests will begin this week, according to a statement from California-based Cepheid, the company manufacturing the tests. Clinicians say faster testing will help alleviate some of the pressure on hospital resources.
The new test is a significant advancement because some patients have complained it took them days to get results. Testing is the vital first stage of a coronavirus response, as it allows health officials to isolate cases before they have the opportunity to spread. Millions of tests are conducted every day. Currently, only people who have recently visited certain affected areas such as China or Italy need to submit themselves for testing. The Chief Medical and Technology officer at Cepheid, Dr. David Persing, said: “During this time of increased demand for hospital services, Clinicians urgently need an on-demand diagnostic test for real-time management of patients being evaluated for admission to health-care facilities. “An accurate test delivered close to the patient can be transformative – and help alleviate the pressure that the emergence of the COVID-19 outbreak has put on healthcare facilities that need to properly allocate their respiratory isolation resources,” Persing added. However, Dr. Anthony Fauci, an infectious disease expert, said not every single person needs to get tested.
Concerns have arisen that current test methods are taking too long to return. Vanguard Nigeria News The number of novel coronavirus cases in the US surged past 1,000 on Tuesday, after public health experts criticized authorities for downplaying the epidemic and lagging behind in testing efforts. At least 28 people have died and 1,025 people have been infected, according to a running tally by Johns Hopkins… March 11, 2020 In "Foreign" Director General of the Nigeria Center for Disease Control, NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, has gone into self-isolation for 14 days. March 4, 2020 In "News" A team of US scientists jostled for a view of the lab dish, staring impatiently for the first clue that an experimental vaccine against the new coronavirus just might work. After weeks of round-the-clock research at the National Institutes of Health, it was time for a key test. If the vaccine… March 8, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"