Fast-rising Nigerian Afrobeat artiste, Christopher Ugochukwu Godstime, better known as Popular, has revealed that he delved into the Nigeria entertainment industry to make an impact on the youth via music, noting that music has always been a getaway for him while growing up. Popular, who noted that he is in the industry to contribute his own little quota in terms of the quality of songs filled with motivation messages, said ‘ I don’t want to be known as just an ordinary artiste, I want to be known for a number of impactful songs that will stand the test of time; people want to party with, but in doing so, a message will be passed across’. The Warri-born singer and Computer Science graduate of Oghara Polytechnic is currently signed to Nsogbu Records where he released his first single titled ‘New Skool’. Speaking further on why he delved into music, Popular divulged that his love for the art grew out of listening to classic songs from the oldies and  international star like Drake while growing up. Popular recently released a new single titled ‘ Energy’ and is currently working on few projects and collaborations that would be announced soon. Vanguard Popular Disc Jockeys and mix tape artistes, DJ Moni, DJ Samba, and DJ T Flash have commended the quality of production and rich lyrical content of the rave making song, ‘One Parole.’ November 14, 2015 In "Entertainment" By Rita Okoye Nigerian born Teemanay, better known as “Young Icon” is an International Afrobeats Artiste whose passion and love for music can't be overemphasized. Teemany's journey into the fiercely competitive music industry became official in November 2014 with the debut of his single titled “Girl For The Night”. ALSO… November 2, 2019 In "Entertainment" Budding star of Afro-music, a genre previously unknown to music fans in the United States, is a fast-rising Nigerian songwriter, a record producer known as Akeju. Akeju’s name is fast evolving into a household item in New York City, the city that never sleeps. He is so popular and influential,… October 30, 2019 In "Entertainment"