On another thrilling episode of MTV Base Behind The Story, one of the most talked-about names bubbling out of the Nigerian music scene, Joeboy, sat with host, Sammy Walsh. Born Akinfenwa-Donus Joseph, the singer talked about his childhood, family, music, relationships and his plans for the future. During the episode, Joeboy revisited places that were pivotal to his rise to the top and talked about the moments that made him. From a very religious family, Joeboy, revealed that his parents were very accommodating when he told them he wanted to do music full time. The ‘Baby’ hit-maker was encouraged to make this decision because of the high rate of unemployment in the country. Many surprising facts about Joeboy were unravelled in this edition of ‘Behind The Story’, and the singer opened up on how his elder brother’s relationship with 9ice and ID Cabasa sparked his interest in music. He also revealed that he met Mr Eazi in 2017, through a friend in Europe who sent his song to Eazi via Instagram and how his life has changed since then. In the episode, Joeboy, who is 22 years old, disclosed that he has been making music since he was 17, but officially went mainstream in 2017. The singer also gave fans more than a glimpse of his life before his rise to fame and how his life has changed since 2017. The final episode of “Behind The Story” will air on Tuesday, March 17, on MTV Base. Vanguard Overtime, recording a cover of a top artiste’s song has paved the way for many underground musical greenhorns. Lagos State-born Afro-pop artiste, Joseph Akinfenwa Donnus, a.k.a Joeboy has been a beneficiary. June 29, 2019 In "Entertainment" By Ayo Onikoyi As part of celebrations around the continent to mark the 15th year of its debut in Africa, premium entertainment channel, MTV Base in collaboration with Capital Block Party hosted thousands of fans to a star-studded concert at the BMT Gardens in Abuja. The concert had performances by… February 29, 2020 In "Entertainment" The last episode of MTV Base Behind The Story features Alex Okosi, who is the driving force behind ViacomCBS Networks Africa, home to Powerhouse Entertainment Brands BET, Comedy Central, MTV, MTV Base, MTV Music, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr., and NickToons in Africa, as well as BET International with channel brand businesses… February 23, 2020 In "Entertainment"