Kano State Government has set up a 14-man technical committee to sanitise operations of broadcast media in the state with Muhammad Garba, Commissioner for information, as Chairman. Garba made the disclosure on Friday, while briefing newsmen on the outcome of the State Executive Council, SEC, meeting.‎‎ He said the technical committee would, among other things, look into ‎the issue of professional misconduct and abuse of privilege by some media organisations in the state.‎ Garba said: “Kano State has 13 broadcast stations, which is the highest in northern Nigeria, mainly owned by individuals. “‎That is why we set up a committee of professionals to monitor radio stations in the state in order to ensure that they adhere to broadcast code and also to sensitise ‎them. “As a government, we are not doing this to stop people from airing their views or stop the Freedom of Information, FoI. We are doing it to sanitise the sector for the overall good of the state.” ALSO READ: Kano Assembly commences fresh probe of Emir Sanusi Garba disclosed that Professor Umar Pate was appointed as co-chairman, while Commissioners for Justice and Religious Affairs, Ibrahim Mukhtar, and Dr. Muhammad Adam would serve as members, respectively. Others are Isma’il Na’abba, Director-General, Kano State Censorship Board; representatives of the police; National Broadcasting Corporation, NBC; Nigerian Union of Journalists, NUJ; Radio, Television and Theatre Arts Workers Union, RATTAWU; civil society organisations, CSOs, and office of the Secretary to the State Government, SSG, among others.‎ The commissioner disclosed that the council approved N245 million for the settlement of excess workload for three academic sessions for members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, and Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities, NASU, Kano University of Science and Technology, KUST, Wudil. Garba revealed further that the council also approved N552 ‎million for the rehabilitation of Phase I Kafin-Ciri Dam in Garko Local Government Area of the state. “The council also approved N122 million for erosion and washout control in Garko, while N38 million was approved for replacement of batteries in  50 enrollment centres of National Identity Management Commission, NIMC,” he said. He added that the council equally approved N16 million for upgrade of vocational skill acquisition ‎centres in the state. Vanguard Confusion arose following the broadcast of the videos showing scores of children well under ten queuing to vote in the election. INEC’s spokesman, Oluwole Osaze- Uzzi, had distanced the Commission from it, blaming the KSIEC and adding that the Commission has no power to conduct local government elections. February 26, 2018 In "Editorial" Media Rights Agenda, MRA, yesterday called on the Kano State Government to discontinue its move to establish a committee to address alleged professional misconduct and abuse of privilege by media organizations in the State, describing it as an unwarranted and politically motivated effort to restrict media freedom. January 14, 2020 In "News" TODAY is Wednesday, December 12, 2012. We are all looking forward to the peak of the festive season — Christmas — which comes up in another 13 days. Part of the efforts to celebrate Christmas in a grand style, by many families is the purchase of new television sets, and… December 12, 2012 In "Technology"