Mr Rufus Aplang, left guests and worshippers in shock when he walked out of the church during his wedding and abandoned his supposed bride, Judith, in Jos. Aplang fled God’s Glory Ministry, Jos, venue of the wedding when it was time to take the wedding vow on Saturday. His action threw family members, friends, colleagues and associates into wild confusion. Aplang, was quoted allegedly to have said before walking out of the Church that he had planned 10 years ago to disgrace his supposed bride on their wedding day. An eye witness, Miss Julian Dogo, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Jos, that the fleeing groom gave shocking answers to the pastor while he was taking his marital vows. “Aplang was asked on the altar by the pastor, do you take Judith as your wife for batter for worse? Then he replied with a No. “The pastor put the same question to him, and he replied, ‘Pastor, I heard you clearly, and understand English very well and my answer is still No’ “Then the pastor said to him, but you are well dressed and came ready for this wedding, and he replied, ‘sorry, I made up my mind 10 years ago to disgrace her on our wedding day’ “As soon as he said that, he walked out of the church, and was followed by his best man and his friends who drove out of the church premises,” Dogo told NAN NAN reports that Judith, the supposed bride, collapsed inside the church and was taken to a disclosed hospital around Plateau State Polytechnic in Jos Mr Peter Sani, the best man to Aplang, who narrated the incident to NAN, described it as very “embarrassing” “Aplang is my childhood friend, Judith has been a friend and sister too, and he dated her for over 12 years. “I was in the church to serve as a best man, and also as a fulfilled man to witness their wedding, but I was shocked and highly disappointed with what happened in the church today,” he said. Sani, who attributed his friend’s behaviour to some sort of diabolism, added that Aplang’s action was not ordinary. “This is not ordinary; Aplang will always confide in me on any issue if he had the plan to walk out on the altar he would have told me. “What happened today is unimaginable, I came out of the church weeping profusely” he added. Vanguard Sapele—A 41-year-old man, simply identified as Julius, is finding it difficult to understand why his “wife” abandoned her marital vows midway into their wedding, shouting “I am no longer interested,” at the wedding reception in Udu Local Government Area of Delta State. November 2, 2016 In "News" A groom-to-be, Mr Samuel Yarling, of Lamingo, Jos, has reportedly died on his wedding day leaving his bride-to-be and both families devastated. The wedding which was slated for March 21, at the ECWA Church Seminary, had sent two families into mourning after the sudden death of the groom. Late Yarling… March 21, 2020 In "Metro" Marriage is not a frivolous matter. It is so important that it is considered an institution and not a venture you go into dilly dally. Before taking the decision to marry someone, it is believed that you have taken out time to study the person and you are convinced that… November 19, 2016 In "News"