First Bank of Nigeria Limited has announced its donation of N1 billion towards the joint effort by the Nigerian Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID). The donation is to rapidly expand the health facilities; especially testing, isolation, treatment and the provision of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) facilities pivotal to controlling the spread and importantly, treating individuals diagnosed with COVID- 19. This is in addition to the Bank’s drive to move one million children to e-learning, together with an early partner – Roducate – as recommended by the Ministry of Education, Lagos State. In line with the 14-day stay home directive for Lagos, Ogun and FCT Abuja in the speech by President Muhammadu Buhari, the Bank has also reiterated its preparedness to provide essential banking services through its alternative channels to its customers and the public at large which is in line with its robust business continuity plan. Updating on the Bank’s efforts; the Bank’s CEO, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, said “We promise to continue to look at all areas of intervention where our business infrastructure, reach, digital platforms and other natural strengths lie and can be deployed to further support all efforts for Nigerians; young and old alike.” Vanguard First Bank of Nigeria Limited has announced the donation of N1 billion toward the joint effort by the Nigerian Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID). Dr Adesola Adeduntan, the bank’s Chief Executive Officer, made this known in a statement in Lagos on Monday. Adeduntan said the donation was to rapidly… March 30, 2020 In "News" United Bank for Africa Plc,  UBA, yesterday, announced a donation of over N5 billion ($14 million), through the UBA Foundation, to catalyse a comprehensive pan-African response to the fight against the coronavirus  pandemic. March 27, 2020 In "Business" UNITED Bank for Africa Plc, UBA, weekend, announced a donation of over N5 billion, through the UBA Foundation, to help contain the COVID-19 pandemic in 20 African countries where it operates. March 30, 2020 In "Business"