Idris Elba has confirmed he has tested positive for coronavirus. The actor says he feels okay and currently has no symptoms, but has been isolated since he found out that he may have been exposed to the virus. In a tweet, Idris Elba said: “This morning I tested positive for COVID-19. I feel ok, I have no symptoms so far but have been isolated since I found out about my possible exposure to the virus. “Stay home people and be pragmatic. I will keep you updated on how I’m doing. No panic.” This morning I tested positive for Covid 19. I feel ok, I have no symptoms so far but have been isolated since I found out about my possible exposure to the virus. Stay home people and be pragmatic. I will keep you updated on how I’m doing  No panic. pic.twitter.com/Lg7HVMZglZ — Idris Elba (@idriselba) March 16, 2020  In an accompanying video, Idris Elba says he was tested after he discovered he had been in contact with someone else who had also tested positive for COVID-19. He also urged followers to think about social distancing and washing their hands, adding they should be vigilant to mitigate the spread of the virus. Idris Elba’s announcement comes as Health Secretary Matt Hancock confirmed that 53 people had now passed away after testing positive for coronavirus, Skynews reported. Vanguard Idris Elba has revealed he has tested positive for the coronavirus on Twitter. The actor, 47, said that he 'feels ok' and has no symptoms but has decided to self-isolate. Posting a video on social media, the star poses next to his wife Sabrina Dhowre to give fans an update… March 16, 2020 In "News" The health condition of the index case for COVID-19 in Nigeria is not a cause for concern as the 44-year-old Italian is said to be 70 per cent stable. March 3, 2020 In "News" ...Says world should prepare for potential pandemic ...Iran’s deputy health minister contracts virus By Sola Ogundipe & Gabriel Olawale As the number of new deaths and infections from the COVID-19 continue to rise in the Middle East and Europe, the World Health Organisation, WHO, has warned all countries to step… February 26, 2020 In "Features"