The All Progressives Congress (APC), State Chairmen Forum has disassociated itself from a statement claiming that it passed a vote of confidence on the party’s National Chairman, Mr Adams Oshiomhole. The forum’s Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Lawal Liman, in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday, described as “fraudulent”, a statement claiming that the group met and passed a vote of confidence on Oshiomhole. Liman, who is also the party’s Chairman in Zamfara, said that there was no such decision reached by the forum. According to him, the forum has not met to deliberate on the crisis that has engulfed the party. “We have not met, but we plan to meet before APC’s National Executive Council (NEC), meeting scheduled for March 17, 2020. “As soon as some state chairmen saw the statement, they started calling me to find out the veracity of the statement. “l want to confirm to my colleagues that there was no meeting held and there was no statement issued to pass a vote of confidence on the APC National Chairman. “All issues will be resolved at the next NEC meeting and, hopefully, we will hold a meeting of the forum before the said NEC meeting. “We will not, in any way, bring the name of the forum to disrepute by doing what will take away our credibility,” the forum spokesman said. NAN Vanguard Nigeria News The All Progressives Congress (APC) Forum of State Chairmen on Thursday in Abuja passed a vote of confidence on Mr Adams Oshiomole, the party’s National Chairman, saying he is the best man to lead the party. June 6, 2019 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja State Chairmen of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC in Yobe and Kogi states have denied reports alleging that the Forum of APC State Chairmen along with some members of the National Executive Committee NEC had called for the sack of the party's National Chairman, Comrade… November 24, 2019 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State has suspended the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over his role in the crisis rocking the state chapter of the party. The decision followed the vote of no confidence passed on Comrade Oshiomhole by the Chairmen of the APC… November 12, 2019 In "News"