NATIONAL leadership of  Host Communities of Nigeria, HOSCON, has told President Muhammadu Buhari to stop perceived illegal and unconstitutional payment of 13 percent derivation fund through state governors who are third line charge on the Federation Account and pay same directly to the host communities through the proposed Presidential Derivation Committee, PDC and State Implementation Committees, SIC. National Director of Media and Publicity of HOSCON, Chief Monday Whiskey in a statement said: “It is illegal and unconstitutional for governors of the South – South states and their state Assemblies to legislate on oil/gas 13 percent derivation fund which is first line charge on the Federation Account. Whiskey in the statement said: “The Prince Mike Emuh and the entire leadership of  HOSCON are happy that governors of the South South have confirmed that 13 percent derivation fund is a first line charge on the Federation Account as contained in their recent press statement. “This is very pleasant to the oil/gas producing communities. Of a truth, 13 percent derivation fund is the only first line charge on the Federation Account. The Federal Government is second line charge, the state government is third line charge while the local government is fourth line charge. “This is the position of the law as confirmed by the revenue formula. Therefore, it is illegal and unconstitutional to pay the 13 percent derivation fund which is first line charge through state governors third line charge on the Federation Account. Section 162(2) of the 1999 constitution as amended ‘provided that the principle of derivation shall be constantly reflected in any approved formula as not being less than 13 percent of the revenue accruing to the Federation Account directly from any natural resources” “These position of the constitution made it very clear that 13 percent derivation fund is provided for constitutionally and exclusively for the oil/gas producing communities primarily as compensation for lost of fishing rights and productive farmlands as a result of oil/gas exploration and production activities. Vanguard By Emma Amaize, Warri The Host Communities of Nigeria, HOSCON, has said it is inappropriate for Governors of South-South states, who they accused of mismanaging 13 percent Derivation Fund,  to tell President Muhammadu Buhari how to appoint people on the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC Board. National Director of Media… October 21, 2019 In "News" Host Communities of Nigeria, Producing Oil and Gas, HOSTCOM, has said the 13 percent derivation fund being managed by state governments on behalf of the communities is a fraud, contending that the fund should be channeled to communities through oil/gas development agencies. December 6, 2016 In "News" WARRI—Host communities of  Nigeria  Producing Oil and Gas, HOSCON, has lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for  supporting call  for the 13 percent derivation fund  to go to  oil bearing communities  in the Niger Delta region. December 31, 2018 In "News"