The Abia State government on Saturday ordered the closure of all land borders as part of measures to check the spread of COVID-19 to the state. The state Commissioner for Information, Chief John Okiyi-Kalu, who disclosed this in a statement in Umuahia, said the decision has become necessary following the outbreak of COVID-19 in some parts of the country. Okiyi-Kalu said the directive on the border closure would take effect from 4:00 a.m. on Sunday. According to him, security agencies, traditional rulers and youths in the state are expected to ensure total compliance of the directive. He said: “All necessary measures, including total blockage of the borders, will be put in place until further notice. “Particular efforts will be geared towards stopping those who may attempt to sneak into the state, either at night or at dawn, until further notice.” He added that traditional rulers and security agencies had been mandated to ensure that persons identified to have returned from Lagos, Abuja and overseas were made to observe self-isolation for at least 14 days. (NAN)  Vanguard The Abia State governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, as on Saturday approved the closure of all the state's land borders with effect from 4am on Sunday, 29th March 2020 to stem the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state. This was contained in a press statement made available to the… March 28, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" A statement signed by Commissioner for Information, John Kalu reads: “Following the recommendation of the state’s inter-ministerial committee on COVID-19 based on situational reviews, Abia State Governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, has approved the closure of all the state's land borders with effect from 4am on Sunday, 29th March, 2020. Security… March 28, 2020 In "News" The enlarged Inter-Ministerial Committee on Coronavirus set up by Governor Okezie Ikpeazu met today to review progress made to prevent the disease from afflicting the state as well as put in place control and mitigation plans in case of an unlikely outbreak and wish to restate that the state is… March 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"