THE chairman of Pefti Film Institute, Wale Adenuga has described the film industry in Nigeria as unprofitable, saying that things are not going on well as expected with the sector. Adenuga, who disclosed this during the weekend in Ibadan while speaking with newsmen, however, said the Federal Government had done it best by providing loans for film making but advocated for a total restructuring of the sector. The veteran filmmaker who spoke while opening a new Pefti institute in Ibadan, urged people to disregard the flamboyant lifestyles of some of the young actors and actresses in the industry, adding that many of them made their money outside film production. His words: “Many people are oblivious of the fact that many of the young Nollywood actors and actresses who live flamboyant lifestyles make their money outside film making. They make people believe everything is alright in the film making.” “You see them building big houses, living in affluence, but their source of money is beyond making the film.” He berated lack of organised association to govern the activities of the actors and moviemakers in the industry. “Although the average Nigerian may find this shocking but Nollywood is the only industry with no organised association to govern the activities of actors and moviemakers in the industry. This country cannot speak of a unified national association of filmmakers, the way that doctors talk about the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), lawyers talk about the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and the gentlemen of the press have the Nigerian Union of Journalists(NUJ). It is true that Nollywood has all manners of guilds but these are all based on the sentiments.” “One is persuaded to believe that the inability to come together under an umbrella is one of the reasons why Nollywood have some of the problems that hinder them from the development of the business in Nigeria.” Speaking on the PEFTI Film Institute, Mr Adenuga disclosed the institute was established to create opportunities for both green-horn aspirants and practitioners, to acquire a proficient professional training in the diverse disciplines of film, television and music production. He added that part of the missions of the institute is to conduct research into all aspects of film, television and music production and to collaborate with similar institutions and relevant agencies within and outside Nigeria, towards creating virile film television and music industries. Vanguard Producers of ‘Superstory’ which recently entered into a partnership with Society for Family Health, SFH, Nigeria to produce a special season, titled “Free to Live”, have announced plans to hold auditions for actors and actresses who would feature in the production. September 2, 2016 In "Entertainment" The Nollywood you know today is not the one that cropped up from Hilbert Ogungbe. Nollywood came about with the sales, marketing and multiplication of CDs. The Igbos got more involved by their investments. The Igbos did what they had to do, whether good or not, it has given us… June 13, 2015 In "Entertainment" Wale Adenuga owned PEFTI Film Institute, Lagos, has finally announced the unveiling of its much talked about PEFTI Cinema which opens from today with the showing of the blockbuster, “The Wedding Party 2.” December 23, 2017 In "Entertainment"