On Saturday, February 29, the music, entertainment and lifestyle powerhouse, MTV Base, took over the month’s edition of Island Block Party to celebrate its anniversary with a concert. The concert, which was held at the Lekki Special Event Center, had in attendance some of the heavyweights in the music and entertainment industry. It was a night of thrilling fun, and non-stop excitement for music and entertainment lovers as MTV Base marked fifteen years of showcasing African music to the world and providing platforms for African talents to be recognised. The MTV Base and Island Block Party rave, anchored by hypemen, BollyLomo, and Tolu Daniels, featured performances from top musicians like Mayokun, Teni, Niniola, Peruzzi, CDQ, Ladipoe, Blaqbonez, Ckay, Buju and Slimcase among others. With over 6,000 party-goers in attendance, the concert featured everything from dance competitions to fun games, music performances and many more enjoyable activities. It was a night of exhilarating fun, and non-stop excitement as the DJs and performing artistes thrilled fans to exciting tunes and melodies. Commenting on the event, the Country Manager, VCN Africa, Bada Akintunde-Johnson, said: “At MTV Base, we sit in the heart of youthful culture, we have been able to build a bond with our audiences. Fifteen years in this industry is no easy feat, and we are grateful for all the support that we have received from our viewers over the years. It was therefore imperative for us to ensure that we partnered this event to give our audiences the complete MTV Base experience that they have come to know and love.” MTV Base began the month-long celebration with a series of activities that included a panel session and the MTV Base takeover of Capital Block Party in Abuja, as well as a bus and signage, take over in Lagos. The bus takeover saw the entertainment giant offer free rides to commuters in Lagos for 3 days on MTV Base branded BRT and Danfo buses. Launched on 22 February 2005, MTV Base is MTV’s first dedicated channel for the African market and features the continent’s broadest mix of contemporary artists and music genres. VANGUARD For the Nigerian music industry 2017 resonated with series of melodramatic dynamics which eventually culminated in what could be described as a fun year. And as it wraps up Showtime recalls with nostalgic feelings artiste concerts that rocked the industry. December 30, 2017 In "Music" Africa’s foremost music and general entertainment Television Network, MTV Base, has announced the return of the MTV Base Roundtable, the most controversial and fiercely debated music list in Nigerian entertainment industry. December 13, 2017 In "Entertainment" The usually quiet Ikeja City Mall car park came alive in a blaze of lights, music and good spirits on Friday December 18, 2015 as the #BASEWHITEXMASPARTY organised by MTV Base dazzled over 2,000 screaming fans with performances from superstar acts like Olamide, Phyno, Wande coal, Reminsce, Sean Tizzle and… December 22, 2015 In "Entertainment"