The Zamfara State House of Assembly has announced the suspension of all activities including plenaries until further notice. The Speaker of the House, Alhaji Nasiru Magarya, made this known in a statement issued to newsmen in Gusau on Thursday by the Public Relations Officer of the Assembly, Malam Mustafa Jafaru-Kaura. Magarya expressed deep concern over the dreaded coronavirus which is now a global disaster. He said the Assembly also cancelled all its activities including plenary, committee sittings and oversight functions as part of measures to curtail the spread of the disease in the state. “Though there is no outbreak of the pandemic in the state, we are aware of the concerted efforts made by all relevant stakeholders to ensure that the disease will not get its way to the state. “We commend the efforts of Gov. Bello Matawallen for taking proactive measures aimed at containing the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “With this suspension, members and staff of the House are, therefore, directed to stay at home until further notice,” the speaker said. Magarya urged members to visit their constituencies to re-orientate their people on how to prevent themselves from contracting the disease through basic hygiene. The speaker assured the state government of the Assembly’s readiness to promulgate laws that would enhance a good and better health care delivery system. He urged Muslims to embark on prayers and seek Allah’s intervention over the disease. vanguard COVID-19; The Delta House of Assembly, on Tuesday, urged Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa to direct the state Ministry of Health and other relevant agencies to intensify sensitisation campaign on Coronavirus in all parts of the state. The Assembly made the call in a resolution passed during plenary in Asaba. The resolution… March 17, 2020 In "News" The Speaker of Zamfara House of Assembly, Alhaji Nasiru Magarya on Thursday reiterated that the assembly would no longer discuss issues of security at plenary. Magarya said at the House sitting that the decision was because certain sensitive issues needed to be discussed in close door session at the committee… October 10, 2019 In "News" The Zamfara House of Assembly on Tuesday passed the state 2020 Appropriation Bill of N188 billion. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Gov. Bello Matawalle on Dec. 4, 2019, presented a budget of N182.7 billion for 2020 to the House for approval. February 11, 2020 In "News"