James Milner believes there is a risk that Liverpool’s achievements are being taken for granted, saying their spectacular season “isn’t normal” as they close in on the Premier League title. Jurgen Klopp’s side are two wins away from lifting the league crown for the first time in 30 years after amassing 82 points from 29 matches. Liverpool returned to winning ways on Saturday, beating Bournemouth 2-1 after three defeats in four matches in all competitions to set a new top-flight record of 22 consecutive home league wins. Despite their remarkable record, midfielder Milner said winning was not as easy as Liverpool had made it look, shown by their recent wobble. “It is so hard to win the league. The amount of games we have won in a row — that isn’t normal,” said the 34-year-old. “You can win the league and you can drop points in a few games but to win this many games is not normal and people then start thinking it is easy.” Milner spoke about his experience of relegation with Leeds in 2004, saying: “You think it is just an impossible task to win a game of football.” Asked whether Liverpool’s form had been taken for granted this season, Milner added: “It can be. Winning is tough and when you have won that many games everybody thinks, ‘Oh they are going to win again, the title is done’. “It’s not, because you have to go out there and win the games. No one gives you it.” “What the team has done this season has been unbelievable,” he added. The return to winning ways has given Liverpool a confidence boost ahead of Wednesday’s pivotal Champions League last-16 second leg tie against Atletico Madrid at Anfield, where Klopp’s side must overturn a 1-0 deficit. VANGUARD Liverpool right-back Trent Alexander-Arnold has said that his side's 4-0 victory over Leicester on Boxing Day was their best performance of the season. The Reds travelled to the King Power Stadium on Thursday knowing that a win would see them increase the gap over the second-place Foxes to 13 points.… December 27, 2019 In "Sports" Leicester City manager Brendan Rodgers believes it will be "very, very hard to stop" Liverpool winning the Premier League, while also singling out Trent Alexander-Arnold for praise. Liverpool moved 13 points clear at the top after thrashing Leicester 4-0 at King Power Stadium on Boxing Day. Rodgers said his former… December 27, 2019 In "Sports" James Milner scored a stoppage-time winner as Liverpool moved eight points clear at the top of the Premier League with a thrilling 2-1 victory over Leicester, while Mauricio Pochettino's problems mounted after Tottenham's heavy loss at Brighton on Saturday. Liverpool won for the 17th consecutive league game thanks to Milner's… October 5, 2019 In "News"