The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, cautioned Nigerians to avoid social visits to police stations across Nigeria. This is just as he warned officers to avoid “unnecessary arrests and detention of suspects.” The statement, signed by force’ spokesperson, Frank Mba, with Ref No. CZ.5300/FPRD/FHQ/ABJ/VOL.2/, reads:  “The IGP, while urging officers to observe personal safety measures, further directs the Zonal AIGs and Command CPs to ensure that cases of unnecessary arrests and detention of suspects are not condoned. “He reiterates that detention of suspects must be reduced to the barest minimum and that only very serious cases such as terrorism, armed robbery, homicide and other non-bailable offences should warrant detention. “The IGP further directs that adequate measures be emplaced to screen persons to be committed into police custody. “The IGP enjoins citizens to avoid social visits to police stations and other police offices and minimise official visits, except where absolutely necessary.” “Also, in compliance with the Federal Government’s directive that all tertiary institutions be shut, the IGP has ordered the immediate closure of the Nigeria Police Academy as well as all Police Primary and Secondary Schools nationwide. “The Force Medical Services has been empowered and directed to step up sensitisation programmes across Commands, Formations and Barracks in the country.” Vanguard ...Warns against unnecessary arrests/detention of suspects ...Orders Closure of Nigeria Police Academy, All Police Secondary & Pry Schools Nationwide By: Kingsley Omonobi, Abuja Against the backdrop of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) global health threat and the subsequent social restriction orders imposed by governments at all levels, to enable its containment, the… March 22, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" ON assumption of office as the acting Inspector- General of Nigeria Police, Alhaji MD Abubakar said of the police he is to lead: “Our men are deployed to rich and influential individuals and corporate entities that we lack manpower to provide security for the common man; our investigation departments cannot… January 3, 2013 In "Viewpoint" Following the complaint by the National Chairman of All Progressive Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole that his house in Benin was attacked by suspected loyalists to the incumbent administration in Edo state, the Police on Wednesday commenced interrogation of six persons believed to have a hand in the attack. October 30, 2019 In "News"