A member of Oodua People’s Congress (OPC), Sola Oguntade was reportedly attacked by suspected Fulani herdsmen in Araromi area of Oba-Ile in Akure North area of Ondo State. He was attacked at Owode/Araromi axis along airport road on last week Friday night while he was working with his motorcycle. The victim is a commercial motorcyclist. Speaking with newsmen in Akure, a member of OPC in Akure North, Mr Tosin Omotayo said Oguntade was flagged down by two Fulani men opposite area command office. Omotayo said while Oguntade wanted to drop them at the Osi junction, he requested for their fares. ” As he stopped to drop the herdsmen, and requested for payment, three others came out from the bush and attacked him He said they shot him severally but when the bullet could not enter, they hit him with planks. Omotayo said that his motorcycle and his proceeds for the day’s job were taken away by the attackers He added that the victim was discovered in the midnight on Saturday by some hunters who were on expedition. The victim according to him was rushed to the state hospital by members of the OPC and the Police. Contacted, the state police command spokesperson, Lee Teo lkoro said that the matter was yet to be reported to the state police command. VANGUARD THE Former Secretary to the Government of the Federation SGF and chieftain of Afenifere, Chief Samuel Oluyemisi Falae, Monday received the shock of his life on his 77th birthday as gunmen numbering over 20 invaded his farm in Ilado village, Akure north area of Ondo state and abducted him. September 21, 2015 In "News" PALPABLE fear has continued to grip farmers across Ondo State following the menace of Fulani herdsmen whose activities have left many dead and also led to wanton destruction of properties. April 21, 2016 In "News" Former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF and chieftain of Afenifere, Chief Samuel Oluyemisi Falae, yesterday received the shock of his life on his 77th birthday as gunmen numbering over 20 invaded his farm in Ilado village, Akure North area of Ondo state and abducted him. September 22, 2015 In "News"