Several government offices, schools and a police station were attacked to destroy voting material in Guinea ahead of a controversial constitutional referendum scheduled for Sunday. The vote for a new constitution, due to take place on March 1 but delayed by Guinea’s leader Alpha Conde, is seen by critics as an attempt by the president to extend his grip on power. The government insists the vote is democratic. Protesters attacked several buildings and destroyed voting material overnight Friday into Saturday, several local officials told AFP. A police station in the central Mamou region was targetted by attackers who “tore up (voter) lists and ransacked dozens of boxes containing electoral cards,” an official told AFP Saturday. Two public schools that were supposed to operate as polling stations were also burned, another local official said. Several other administrative buildings in the north and southern part of the country were also torched, sources said. Supporters of the opposition FNDC party erected road barricades and burned tyres in the streets of Labe city in the north on Saturday, according to witnesses. Security forces were posted in front of public buildings, including the hospital and the governor’s residence. “Things are bubbling up all over the country,” an official from the interior ministry said Saturday, speaking on condition of anonymity. The Minister of Administration, General Bourema Conde, did not respond to calls from AFP Saturday. Sunday’s referendum was postponed last month by the president after international criticism over millions of unaccounted-for names on the electoral roll. Officials now promise those names have been scrubbed, but doubt still lingers for the country’s embattled opposition. The government argues the proposed constitution will, among other things, codify gender equality in the West African state, and that holding a referendum is democratic. But critics insist Conde is looking for a third term in office by using the new constitution to bypass two presidential term limits. Since October, Guineans have taken part in sometimes-violent mass protests against the possibility of a third term. At least 31 protesters and one security officer have been killed in the unrest to date, according to an AFP tally. The vote is taking place against a backdrop of unease over the spread of coronavirus, with two cases confirmed in Guinea so far. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Guinea's opposition on Saturday called for the cancellation of a referendum on changing the constitution, as fresh protests against President Alpha Conde's government broke out in the capital Conakry. Conde on Friday announced the referendum, planned for Sunday, would be postponed -- possibly for two weeks -- following growing domestic… February 29, 2020 In "Foreign" Pro-Kremlin protesters in Ukraine's Russian-dominated east stormed public buildings on Sunday and defied a demonstration ban as they demanded the right to their own Crimea-style referendum. March 16, 2014 In "News" Egyptians were voting on a new constitution Tuesday amid high security in a referendum likely to launch a presidential bid by the army chief who overthrew Islamist president Mohamed Morsi. January 14, 2014 In "News"