The President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Mohammadu Buhari has asserted that sex/money for grades was a blight on our society and anathema to our collective efforts. Buhari represented by the Minister of State for Education , Hon Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba made the assertion at the 33rd Convocation of the University of Calabar, UNICAL, on Saturday at the Abraham Odia stadium. His words : “The recent phenomenon where lecturers are alleged to be awarding grades in exchange for cash and sex across our universities, is a blight on the society. “It is anathema to our collective efforts at bequeathing to posterity a morally upright society. “In this regard, I challenge University Governing Councils and Managements of universities in Nigeria to take up the challenge with passion: rid our campuses of undesirable elements and restore public confidence in our institutions. “As a government, I can assure you that, we are committed to improving the standard of life of staff and infrastructural development in our Universities. “It is, therefore, proper that our universities reciprocate these good gestures. Staff and students should cooperate with Management, commit themselves to duty and shun tendencies that tarnish the image of our institution and our country,” President Buhari said. Vanguard Nigeria News Against the background of the recent sting reportage of sexual harassment in Nigerian universities, with special focus on the University of Lagos, I am surprised that many Nigerians are feigning ignorance of the ravaging scourge of sex-for-mark practice which infests our tertiary institutions. There was nothing new or too salacious… October 17, 2019 In "News" Gender Mobile Initiative (GMI), an NGO, says it is partnering with the Ford Foundation to develop anti-sexual harassment policy and mobile application for confidential reporting and data generation. GMI Executive Director, Ms Omowumi Ogunrotimi, who made this known in a statement in Abuja on Saturday, said that the development of… October 12, 2019 In "News" FOR President Muham-madu Buhari to successfully fight corruption in the nation, there is need for him to fight corruption in the nation’s educational system. This is the position of the Vice-Chancellor of Ritman University, Ikot Ekpene, Akwa Ibom State, Professor Celestine A. Ntuen, while speaking during an interview with the… May 24, 2018 In "#Vanguardtraffic"