The United States of America, USA’s Major League Soccer, MLS, on Thursday, suspended its season for 30 days due to the coronavirus pandemic. MLS’s decision has come as professional sports leagues across the globe implemented measures in response to the pandemic. “Our clubs were united today in the decision to temporarily suspend our season,” Commissioner Don Garber said in a written statement. He cited guidance from the U.S. Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, CDC, and other public health authorities. ALSO READ: Twitter orders all employees worldwide to work from home MLS, which kicked off its 25th season late last month, is the most recent major professional sports league to suspend operations in light of the global pandemic. The ATP had announced on Thursday that it would suspend its men’s professional tennis tour for six weeks. The U.S. Soccer Federation also said it had cancelled upcoming matches for its men’s and women’s teams in March and April, as well as “the majority of our upcoming domestic and international camps at all levels.” “We strongly believe this is the best decision considering the ongoing worldwide health situation,” said U.S. Soccer Chief Medical Officer George Chiampas, citing conversations with the CDC as well as state and local health officials. The world of football has been rocked by the coronavirus outbreak, with competitions across Europe suspended, postponed or played without fans. Vanguard Real Madrid's players and staff went into quarantine on Thursday, Spain's La Liga paused its season and the NBA halted games indefinitely as the coronavirus pandemic rocked world sport. La Liga authorities took the decision to suspend matches in the top two divisions for two weeks after Real Madrid confirmed its senior football team was… March 12, 2020 In "Sports" By Ben Edokpayi America’s Major League Soccer (MLS) is beginning to attract the international attention it deserves. In Nigeria that attention peaked last year when Nigeria’s Obafemi Martins was credited with the MLS goal of the season. The goal from a virtually impossible angle beat 64 other goals to claim… February 20, 2015 In "Perspective from both side of the Atlantic" Closing U.S. borders to Europe After being criticized for his government’s response to the coronavirus outbreak, U.S. President Donald Trump pulled out all the stops on Wednesday evening with a month-long travel restriction to the United States from Europe. This order does not apply to Britain or to Americans undergoing… March 12, 2020 In "News"