Growth and emerging markets investor, Actis, said it has acquired a majority stake in Nigeria’s provider of data centre collocation and cloud services, Rack Centre. The company said its decision to invest was taken after a detailed assessment of the players in the African market and selected Rack Centre with the most significant potential to grow and expand in Africa. Rack Centre was established and wholly owned by Jagal, Nigerian conglomerate holding that operates leading energy businesses and manages a diverse portfolio of investments. Commenting on the development, Head of Real Estate at Actis, David Morley, said: “We have been tracking the data centre market in Africa closely, building relationships with key operators and customers. Africa is at an inflection point and we expect to see an explosion in growth of demand for hosting capacity in independently owned data centres across the continent. “We are excited about this new partnership with Rack Centre and its parent company Jagal.  Together they have built a strong business of international repute, hosting a compelling mix of customers ranging from leading Nigerian corporates to global cloud majors.” Also, CEO of Jagal, Maher Jarmakani, said: “Jagal is excited with its new partnership. Rack Centre has developed into a leading and respected African brand and it is now at a critical stage for investment and growth. Actis understands global and emerging markets and will be a fantastic partner for the next phase of the Rack Centre journey.” Meanwhile, Rack Centre MD, Dr Ayotunde Coker, also said it has been a great honour to lead the growth of Rack Centre to become one of the most respected carrier neutral data centre brands in West Africa; a household name with global recognition. He said: “Rack Centre is now at a key juncture and my team and I’m excited with being part of the future growth. With over 750kW of installed capacity, it is now doubling capacity to 1.5MW of IT power at the current location on a trajectory to 10MW.” Since commencing operations in Lagos in 2013, Rack Centre has consistently set the quality bar in the industry in Africa, being the first on the Continent to be Tier III Constructed Facility Certified in April 2017 with a global reputation for excellence and consistently, winning multiple global awards. Rack Centre has the largest installed capacity in West Africa with a range of over 80 blue chip international, multi-national and local clients. With over 35 carriers, Internet Service Providers, Mobile Network Operators present, and hosting the Internet Exchange Point of Nigeria; it is the most connected, carrier neutral, Tier III certified data centre in Sub-Sahara Africa, with every country on the Atlantic coast of Africa directly connected. Vanguard Vodacom Business Nigeria, a leading provider of total communication solutions says it is partnering with Rack Centre Africa, a data centre service provider, to provide a neutral data facility to Nigerians. October 3, 2012 In "Technology" Ezekiel Egboye is the Director of Operations, Rack Centre, saddled with the responsibility of ensuring the short and long term strategies of the business are achieved and possibly surpassed. January 24, 2018 In "Technology" Nigeria’s premiere tier three data centre provider, Rack Centre, has won the Data Centre Impact award at the 2015 Data Centre Dynamics Award for Europe, Middle East and Africa, EMEA, becoming the first African company to do so. December 16, 2015 In "Technology"