Barely forty-Eight hours after he was dethroned as the Emir of Kano, His Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II, has been appointed into the board of KADIPA. A statement from Sir Kashim Ibrahim House said that Malam Nasir El-Rufai has approved the reconstitution of the board of KADIPA. Established in 2015, KADIPA has led the investment drive of the state and anchored implementation of the Ease of Doing Business Charter that earned Kaduna State World Bank recognition as the Number One place for doing business in Nigeria. “Malam Nasir El-Rufai has appointed His Highness, Muhammad Sanusi II into the board of KADIPA. The appointment is part of the reconstitution of the board of KADIPA, which is statutorily chaired by the Deputy Governor, and has as internal members senior officials of the Kaduna State Government. READ ALSO: 2023 presidency: FCT’s APC South-East forum hails El-Rufai “Governor El-Rufai said that Kaduna State hopes to benefit from the profile, experience, intellect and networks of His Highness, Muhammad Sanusi, who before becoming Emir, had built a solid reputation in global financial circles. Malam Nasir El-Rufai said that Kaduna State is honoured to be able to call on the services of a man of such calibre to drive its development. “The Governor also said that he is confident that the new board, which includes the most senior officers of the state will further propel KADIPA to greater success in attracting investments to Kaduna State. He disclosed that the external members have been carefully chosen to further reinforce the investment credentials of the state. “The new board of KADIPA has the following members: “Malam Nasir El-Rufai has expressed his gratitude to members of the reconstituted board of KADIPA for agreeing to serve.” Muyiwa Adekeye Vanguard Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasiru El-Rufai, on Wednesday performed the ground breaking ceremony of 600 housing units and a world class shopping mall in Kaduna. March 21, 2018 In "News" KANO —Kano State Government, yesterday, dethroned the embattled Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, over what it described as disrespect of lawful instructions from Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State and other lawful authorities. March 10, 2020 In "News" Nigeria’s political class converged on Kaduna yesterday and poured encomiums on Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el Rufai, who turned 60 on Sunday, singling him out as one of the selfless public servants who has rendered critical public service with rare courage, bluntness and fearlessness. February 18, 2020 In "News"