FORMER President Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, restated that he would not rest on his oars until global peace is achieved. Obasanjo said this when a special handwritten letter by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Archbishop Justin Welby, was presented by Bishop Precious Omuku on the occasion of his 83rd birthday at the Penthouse of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, OOPL, in Abeokuta, Ogun State. The Archbishop of Canterbury is the Senior Bishop and principal leader of the Church of England, the symbolic head of the worldwide Anglican Communion and the Diocesan Bishop of the Diocese of Canterbury. The letter, which was dated February 20, 2020, noted that the former President, despite his age, has continued to serve the course of peace globally. The two paragraphed letter reads: “I write to wish you many happy returns of the day on 5th March. At an age when many retire, you continue to serve the course of peace across the world, and especially in Africa.” Responding, Obasanjo, who described the letter as “a special birthday gift”, said that the request to continue to serve for peace was a challenge for him. “It is a challenge to do more than what we have done. You realise that everywhere we are, there is always an opportunity to work for peace and an opportunity to work for justice, which is the foundation for peace.” Vanguard James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta Former President Olusegun Obasanjo said on Monday he would not rest on his oars until global peace is achieved. Obasanjo stated this when a special handwritten letter by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Archbishop Justin Welby, was presented to him by Bishop Precious Omuku on the occasion… March 2, 2020 In "News" Catholic  Archbishop of Sokoto Diocese, Mathew Hassan Kukah, said yesterday he never endorsed presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, Abubakar Atiku, for the Presidency in 2019 elections. Kukah said in a statement that he only facilitated the reconciliation meeting between Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and his former vice, Alhaji Atiku Abukakar… October 16, 2018 In "Headlines" NATIONAL Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, yesterday, took a swipe at  the former president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo accusing him of being responsible for the flaws in Nigeria’s political economy since 1999. January 23, 2019 In "News"