Taraba state governor Darius Ishaku has ordered civil servants in the state from Grade Level GL 1-12 to withdraw their services for two weeks as one of the measures to curtail the spread of the dreaded COVID-19 across the state. This came as he constituted an 11 man technical committee to sensitize citizens of the state on the outbreak of the virus. The committee has the state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr Innocent Vakkai as its Chairman. This was contained in separate statements by the Chief Press Secretary to governor Ishaku, Hassan Mijinyawa. The statement reads; “Governeor Darius Ishaku has directed that all civil servants in the state from level 1-12 to from today, the 25 th of March 2020 stay at home for 2 weeks to enable govt monitor and asses the situation of the covid 19 pandemic. “Similarly, those on essential services have been exempted from this directive. “Gov Ishaku also urged Tarabans to effect social distancing and observe good sense of hygiene. “The governor has also approved the composition of a technical committee on COVID-19, to ensure adequate control and sensitization of the state’s population on the outbreak of CoronaVirus. “The committee is expected to expand stakeholder engagements and enhance sensitization campaign across the state.” Vanguard By Femi Bolaji - Jalingo Taraba state governor, Darius Ishaku Saturday ordered the closure of schools on or before Tuesday, March 24 in light of the outbreak of COVID-19 in the country. He also directed that any gathering above 20 persons have become prohibited. In a state broadcast in Jalingo,… March 21, 2020 In "News" Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State, has said he appointed 147 Advisers and Special Assistants as a means of reducing unemployment in the state. May 31, 2016 In "News" By Dirisu Yakubu - Abuja The federal government has directed civil servants on grade level 12 and below to stay back and work from home in a move aimed at curtailing the Coronavirus pandemic. In a memo issued late on Monday night, dated 23rd March 2020 and signed by the… March 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"