In a move signalling possible deregulation of the downstream sector, the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, PPPRA, yesterday, said that there is the possibility of a new price regime for Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, also known as petrol on April 1, noting that the new N125 per litre pump price will last till the end of March 2020. Addressing newsmen in Abuja, Executive Secretary, PPPRA, Mr. Abdulkadir Saidu, stated that the agency would be undertaking a review of PMS price and would announce a new price for the commodity, April 1, 2020, if there is a change in the parameters used in determining the current price. He noted that the price announced Wednesday, March 18, 2020, would apply till March 31, 2020 and a new price might come into effect after the review, adding that henceforth, PPPRA would be undertaking a review of petroleum products prices on a monthly basis. He said: “The approved price of N125 per litre comes into effect from today, which is going to be what we would apply till the end of the month. Then, from the 1st of April, PPPRA will be modulating a monthly price of petroleum products  based on the  market fundamentals. What the new pricing regime is going to be doing is going to be looking at the actual market price. It is going to be a reflection of what the market is doing. “The way the market is going, this  is N125 today, if by the end of March, the prices go  below where they are today, then the Nigerian populace will be expected to  pay less than N125. It is going to be a reflection of what the market is doing in any particular period. “What we are trying to say is that going forward, the price will be a reflection of what the international market is doing. Normally, crude oil price determines the product price that we pay. Therefore, if the crude oil  price moves, definitely, it is going to affect the price of PMS. If it goes down, Nigeria will pay lower.”
He berated oil marketers who were yet to comply with the new price directive and also faulted claims by the marketers that they were not consulted before the review was undertaken. Saidu, however, said that the Federal Government would continue to engage with the oil marketers, noting that a meeting had been scheduled with representatives of the oil marketing companies, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, IPMAN; Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria, MOMAN; and Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association, DAPPMA. He said: “Usually this is not the first time that government has changed price in the country. Any time there is price change, and there is tendency that these kinds of different position will come up, marketers usually want to take advantage of price increase. When there is price increase, everybody will jump and start selling at the increased price, but when you start selling at reduced price, everybody will start complaining,” he stated.
Vanguard Following the directive of the Federal Government that it reduce the price of Premium Motor Spirit, also known as petrol, the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, PPPRA, yesterday, announced N125 per litre as the new price of the commodity, effective March 19, 2020. March 18, 2020 In "News" The Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) said on Thursday the N125.00 new official pump price for Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) would cover the entire month. The Executive Secretary of the PPPRA, Abdulkadir Saidu, disclosed this in a statement in Abuja. He said: “In exercising one of its key statutory… March 19, 2020 In "Business" The Federal Government, yesterday, stated that effective January 1, 2016, Premium Motor Spirit, otherwise known as petrol, would be sold at N86 per litre by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC Retail stations, while other oil marketers would sell at N86.50 per litre. December 30, 2015 In "Headlines"