  Speaking after the meeting which took place at the official residence of the FCT Minister at Life Camp, Ohaa said the enforcement of the ban became necessary to curtail the likely influx of beggars and miscreants to the FCT following the ban on street begging by some states in the country. According to him, relevant officials have been directed to intensify public enlightenment campaigns to reiterate the ban on street begging which he said also has negative security implications. “We want to ensure that the FCT does not become a safe haven to beggars that may be coming from other states that have banned street begging”, he was quoted as saying in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the minister, Anthony Ogunleye. Ohaa however stressed the need for continuous synergy among security agencies for effective performance. He attributed the improved security situation to the fact that security agencies have intensified their crackdown on criminals in the Territory. According to him, “all the security agencies resolved that they will work in synergy to make sure that they tackle the menace of insecurity in the city”, adding that the reduction in violent crimes like kidnapping and armed robbery as well as improved compliance with traffic regulations is as a result of this improved synergy. While calling on residents of the FCT to help improve security by always furnishing security agencies with necessary information that will help them in the proper discharge of their duties, the permanent secretary also pledged the continuous support of the FCTA to security agencies in Abuja with the provision of logistic assistance for their operations. Also speaking, the FCT Commissioner of Police, Bala Ciroma, said there has been a significant improvement in security in the FCT, attributing it to a renewed synergy among security agencies. “There is a lot of synergy among the security agencies and we realized that no agency can do it alone. Therefore, we came together and mapped out strategies that will help nip crime in the bud in the FCT and this has been the basis of our success”, said Ciroma. Speaking on infrastructure and traffic regulations, the Executive Secretary, Federal Capital Development Authority FCDA, Engr. Umar Gambo Jibrin said, everything was being done to ensure that the infrastructure provided in the city met international standards. He added that “Everything is done according to standards with the requisite furniture and other directional requirements and warnings that will guide traffic movement, such that any violator knows ab initio that he is violating, and once apprehended, will be taken up as the law provides”. Vanguard  MINISTER of the Federal Capital Territory Administration, FCTA, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello yesterday summoned the Commissioner of Police, FCT, Mohammed Mustapha to an emergency security meeting as part of moves to nip in the bud, security challenges in the Federal Capital Territory. September 19, 2016 In "News" Abuja --Permanent Secretary of the Federal Capital Territory Administration, FCTA, Abuja, Chinyeaka Ohaa, has said that the FCTA Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board will continue to prioritise the welfare of intending pilgrims of the FCTA to the holy land. July 22, 2019 In "News" Gradually but steadily, beggars have been returning to Abuja after they were hounded out of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) by a former Minister of the Federal Capital Terriroty, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai. The return of the beggars, sometimes accompanied by family members, have been a source of concern to Abuja… November 5, 2016 In "Just Human"