THE Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA is facilitating the call of the first ever Roll-on, Roll-off (RORO) vessel to Rivers port operations in the next couple of weeks. The first Roro Vessels, to berth in the history of the Rivers Port is scheduled to depart the United States of America in the middle of March. The vessel will arrive in Port Harcourt at the end of March or early April. Roro vessels are usually loaded with automobiles. A statement signed by the General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, of NPA, Adams Jatto, noted that “The efforts of the management of NPA to improve vessel traffic to the Eastern Ports is beginning to yield returns. “This is a milestone in the history of Rivers Port and the whole of the Eastern Ports. The introduction of RORO operations will in no small measure increase the revenue base of Rivers Port in particular and NPA as a whole. “The achievement is traceable to intentional commitment and landmark reforms that the current management of the NPA has instituted toward ensuring that all ports in Nigeria become optimally functional. “Steps taken by the Authority include:  the introduction of ten per cent discount on harbour dues on some categories of cargoes berthing at the eastern ports, the dredging of Escravos Channel in Warri, the deployment of equipment and machinery to improve operational efficiency, constant engagement with stakeholders towards achieving industrial harmony and peaceful co-existence.” He noted that other measures are “Conversations with shipping companies which saw the deployment of flat bottom vessels to Calabar, working with the Nigerian Navy, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA and the Port Police Command to combat crimes on the nation’s waterways as well as engaging with the Federal Ministry of Works to ensure the rehabilitation of roads access to and from ports in the region. “The management assure her commitment to ensuring that all ports in Nigeria operate at maximum capacity to the advantage of all Nigerians,” he concluded. Vanguard The Management of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has approved a 10 per cent discount on harbour dues in all concessioned terminals at the Eastern ports. June 11, 2019 In "Business" BUT the belief in many quarters is that the Eastern ports are largely not viable and a liability due largely to their lack of accessibilty by large vessels. For this reason they depend on the revenue generated from the Western ports to still remain in existence. August 2, 2018 In "Business" THIS month of July marks that second year anniversary of the appointment of Ms Hadeza Bala Usman as the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, a development has witnessed giant strides in the development of the nation’s port industry. July 26, 2018 In "Maritime Report"