A man in Rwanda who breached the ongoing lockdown to reportedly go fishing has been killed and eaten by a crocodile, the mayor of the southern Kamonyi district has told the BBC. Alice Kayitesi said the Wednesday morning incident happened in the Nyabarongo river. “He had broken the stay-home rule, he’s among very few people here who are not co-operating with the lockdown to stop the [corona]virus,” Ms Kayitesi said. The authorities in Rwanda imposed a total lockdown on Sunday as cases of Covid-19 continued to rise. The East African nation has confirmed 40 cases so far, the highest in the region. The shutdown of economic activities in the country has severely affected majority of people who are low-income earners. The government said that it would help those struggling amidst the strict measures. In an another development, a local news website reported on Monday that police shot dead two men in the southern district of Nyanza after an altercation about the lockdown. The police have, however, not confirmed the incident. vanguard Rwanda on Saturday confirmed its first case of the new coronavirus -- an Indian citizen who arrived last week from Mumbai, the health ministry said. "He is currently under treatment in stable condition, isolated from other patients. The tracing of all contacts has been conducted for further management," the ministry… March 14, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The ability of the new coronavirus to spread is strengthening and infections could continue to rise, China’s National Health Commission said on Sunday, with nearly 2,000 people in China infected and 56 killed by the disease. A handful of cases have been reported outside China, including in Thailand, Australia, the… January 26, 2020 In "Health" Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis on Sunday urged Italy to ban its citizens from travelling abroad in a bid to stem the spread of the novel coronavirus that has led to a lockdown of one quarter of all Italians. The Czech Republic has registered 26 cases of the virus --… March 8, 2020 In "Foreign"