AN associate professor and chairman, Nigeria Institutions of Environment Engineers, NIEE, Asaba chapter, Dr. Hilary Owamah has lamented the rising spate of unemployment in the country stating that most graduates remain unemployed five years after graduation because they lack market-relevant skills. The academic don, made the disclosure during a one-day workshop tagged “Even a Professor needs a Skill” held at the Delta State Polytechnic, Ozoro, Delta State which was co-organized by the offices of the Special Assistants to the Delta State Governor on Students Affairs and Special Duties (Media), Ezekiel Okoh and Ossai Ovie respectively. Describing the downward trend in the level of employment in the country while harping on the need for undergraduates to acquire useful vocational and or technical skills alongside their quest for tertiary institution certificates, Owamah said: “It is quite unfortunate that while the graduate manufacturing industry continues to expand, the employing counterpart continues to shrink. “Of the 134 recognized polytechnics and 174 universities in Nigeria with an enrollment population of about 2 million, an average of 600,000 graduates is produced yearly. Dr Owamah, however, told the audience that the job scarcity is just one side of the problem, saying, “The bigger problem is that while graduates lament the paucity of job opportunities, the employers bitterly complain that the graduates are unemployable. This is invariably an indictment on the nation’s education policies, programs and processes.” He noted further that in the next five years, the number of degree-awarding institutions may double, and up to a million graduates added to the employment queue annually. VANGUARD DELTA State Governor’s aides On Students Affairs and Special Duties Media, Comrade Okoh Ezekiel Oghenetega and Amb. Ossai Ovie Success will on February 26, 2020 storm Delta State Polytechnic, Ozoro with an Entrepreneurship Awareness programme tagged: "Even a professor needs a skill." February 19, 2020 In "News" ACTING Head of Department of Civil Engineering, Delta State University, Abraka, Delta State, Dr Hilary Owamah, has said that it was lamentable that 40 years of independence, Nigeria still rely basically on foreign nations for its technological and industrial requirements. September 10, 2018 In "News" With an estimated 60 million unemployed persons representing nearly one-third of the country’s population, human capacity development is being seriously endangered. November 17, 2012 In "Special Report"