Hundreds of passengers were stranded in Seme on Saturday as Benin Republic closed its border over the global coronavirus pandemic. A News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent who visited Seme border reports that Benin Republic had closed the departure and arrival gates as early as 6:00a.m. on Saturday NAN reports that most of the passengers traveling to Republic of Benin through Seme border were stranded because of the closure. Passengers who were indigenes of Benin Republic were allowed to pass through the gate to their country while Nigerians were allowed to go through the gate to Nigeria. Meanwhile, Ghanaian and Togolese passengers stranded at the border post, however, refused to go back to Nigeria. NAN reports that one of the Ghanaian passengers said they had called their ambassador to Benin Republic who promised to come and carry them from the border post. Some stranded Nigerians going to Benin Republic had gone back to their different destinations in Nigeria after waiting for several hours at the Seme border post. A senior Immigration officer, who did not want his name mentioned, told NAN that Nigeria was not informed before the closure. He said that the normal thing was for Benin to inform Nigeria before closing the border. He said that Togo had already closed its borders against Benin Republic. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Many travellers and vehicles were stranded for hours on Thursday at Seme border post following restriction of movement around the country’s frontier with Benin Republic. August 22, 2019 In "News" Abba Moro simply stood there, ramrod, hands akimbo, mouth opened wide. Mind you, he is Nigeria’s Internal Affairs Minister.The sight was shocking; even to him. Welcome to Seme, Nigeria’s notorious border point to the West. The same thing replicates itself at the Idi’roko Border post. The scenario simply reinforces the… February 24, 2013 In "Special Report" The biggest second-hand car markets  in the Republic of Benin  are located near our common  border post. September 22, 2019 In "Frank & Fair"