The Deputy National Chairman (South) of the All Progressives Congress, APC, and the immediate-past Governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi has commended the Federal Government for the steps taken so far to curb the spread of Covid-19 otherwise known Coronavirus. Ajimobi spoke on Monday evening while reacting to President Mohammadu Buhari’s national broadcast where measures to curb the spread of the disease were announced. He especially recalled that the palliative measures of the federal government would go a long way in alleviating the problems that could be associated with the Stay-at-home advisory. The former Governor also commended the Governors across the country for the steps taken so far to nip the spread of Covid-19 in the bud. “Apart from all our governors across the country who are taking steps to curb the transmission of the disease, I want to especially commend Governor Jide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State for his pro-active measures to safeguard the lives of Lagosians.” “Lagos is a major economic hub of the country with a lot of people moving into the State from all over the country, thus the steps taken so far by the governor to curtail the spread of the disease is worthy of commendation”, he said. Reacting to the announcement that the Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde tested positive to Covid-19, the APC Deputy National Chairman who expressed solidarity with the Governor said he had already sent the Governor a solidarity message to wish him a quick recovery and God’s protection. “Immediately I heard that my brother, Governor Seyi Makinde test came back positive, I sent him a text message to express solidarity with him and wish him a quick recovery and God’s protection. I also want to appreciate him for his bravery with this revelation.” “I know with adequate care he will get over it. I wish him a quick recovery.” Ajimobi also advised Nigerians to keep on observing the safety measures that have been enunciated by health professionals. “COVID-19-is not a death sentence, people have recovered from it. We will get over this too, but we must continue to ensure that we follow all safety measures like washing of hands, social-distancing and other safety standards as recommended by our health professionals.” “As for all our health workers, we appreciate them for their front line role in the fight against the disease,” he said. Vanguard A faction of the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State, known as the APC reformers, which comprises of former political appointees and elected officials during the administration of the immediate-past governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi on Thursday described the recently announced reconciliation committee headed by a former governor of… March 26, 2020 In "Politics" THE Nigerian Progressive Youth Coalition, NPYC, on Sunday, lauded the decision of the All Progressives Congress, APC, to pick the immediate past Oyo state governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, as the new deputy national chairman of the party, saying it is a step in the right direction of unifying the party. February 9, 2020 In "News" By this time exactly a year ago, political pundits within and outside Oyo State had begun to pile pressure on the Governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, to mull over having another shot at the Senate. This is against the backdrop of his public pronouncements that he was calling… February 9, 2019 In "News"