Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has offered automatic employment to the best graduating student of the Lagos State Polytechnic, LASPOTECH, Ikorodu, Miss Nkechi Kingsley and a cash reward of N250,000 for her academic exploits. Sanwo-Olu, the Moderator to LASPOTECH, made the offer on Thursday during the combined 27th convocation ceremony of the institution. This is also as he promised that the state government would construct the administrative building of the school and assist in the provision of accommodation on campus for staff and students. “For the best graduating student, we hope you will be deployed to do your National Youth Service Corps Scheme in Lagos and even if that is not the case after the service year come for the job offer. If you have any other thing in mind to do, like a business, we will support you to get it started. We should encourage our youths to be serious with their academic and future. “Regarding the numerous requests made by the Rector, apart from the ones will promise to give attention to now, we won’t shy away from our responsibility of taking education to a higher level in the state. Our youths are our future and that is why we are making all the efforts at giving them sound and qualitative education,” he said. The governor commended the outgoing Rector, Samuel Sogunro, for raising the bar of excellence in the school. Miss Kingsley, who bagged a Higher National Diploma in Geology, expressed gratitude to the governor for the honour done her. Earlier, Sogunro thanked the governor for his support to the polytechnic. He urged the governor to assist the school with more capital projects and improved funding. He also thanked staff and students of the institution for their support and noted that the school waxed stronger under his leadership and prayed that the institution would soar higher. Aare Afe Babalola, the owner of Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti and Alhaji Rotinwa were conferred the fellowship of the polytechnic during the event. VANGUARD With a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 3.92, Evelyn Nenuwa has emerged the best graduating student of Lagos State Polytechnic 2013/2014 academic session in the Higher National Diploma (HND) programme, beating Adeniyi Azeez and Abeeb Nureni, with CGPAs of 3.86 and 3.84, bagging HND in Mass Communication and Electrical… April 15, 2015 In "Education" Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State on Thursday said he has approved the recruitment of additional 89 academic staff into various departments in the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), Ikorodu. March 9, 2017 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni An academic non-profit organisation, under the umbrella of Sahara Education Development Initiative, SEDI, which comprise of staff of the institution has called for the immediate intervention of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State and the Lagos Assembly over perennial crisis in Lagos State University. The organisation, during a… October 4, 2019 In "Education"