Ilorin—Governor Abdurahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State, yesterday, directed all civil servants in the state to work from home from today. The governor equally banned all gathering of people above 25 anywhere in the state among other measures to prevent the  spread of the corona virus,  COVID-19. The governor in a statement he personally signed,  said, among others: ‘’We have no confirmed case of COVID-19 in Kwara State. However, as a proactive government, and consistent with our determination to upgrade healthcare infrastructure in Kwara state, I have since approved funding for the construction of an isolation centre at the onset of our administration. “As a community, we must do everything possible to prevent any transmission of COVID-19 by embracing the concept of social distancing and self-isolation.  Given the aforementioned and the global health emergency situation, our administration has taken the following difficult but important decisions to protect Kwarans. “Closure of all public and private nurseries, primary, secondary and state-owned Tertiary institutions. Aside from Ministry of health and essential workers, all civil servants are to work from home until further notice. “All gatherings of more than 25 people are hereby discouraged until further notice. In Kwara State, we are following the lead of the Federal government by mobilising all resources available to us to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in Kwara. “Even so, basic preventive measures by individuals and communities remain the most powerful tool to prevent the spread of COVID-19.” “As individuals, we are all responsible for the general well-being of fellow Kwarans and should work together to prevent the spread of COVID-19.” Vanguard Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq,the symbol of “O to ge” (meaning Enough is enough) political machine that uprooted the political structures of the Saraki dynasty in Kwara has   come a long way in his political life. September 7, 2019 In "News" Ilorin...Anyone entering Kwara state in the last twenty four days since Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq assumed office as governor of the state of harmony would clearly feel the new lease of life being enjoyed by the residents. June 22, 2019 In "News" TEN months after the 2019 elections, the wind storm up-welling from the change of political guards in Kwara State is still raging. January 2, 2020 In "Politics"