Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, will fulfill their final royal commitment when they appear Monday at the annual Commonwealth Service at Westminster Abbey in London. It’s the last time they will be seen at work with the entire royal Windsor clan before they fly off into self-imposed exile in North America. The service marks the end of a two-month drama that began when the couple announced plans to walk away from their roles as senior members of Britain’s royal family and into a world where they will have to earn a living, pay their own way and even open some doors for themselves. It’s uncharted territory for the House of Windsor, even as the family seeks to downsize. “I think this is a blow because I don’t think (the Windsors) would have envisaged that the slimmed-down monarchy would have actually meant that there was no role for Meghan and Harry,” said Pauline Maclaran, co-author of “Royal Fever: The British Monarchy in Consumer Culture.” “I mean, they really brought a new dimension to the royal family brand.” It wasn’t supposed to happen this way. Less than two years ago, Harry and Meghan were seen as a golden couple that would help extend the royal family’s appeal to a new generation. Their wedding on May 19, 2018, united a grandson of 93-year-old Queen Elizabeth II with the former Meghan Markle, a bi-racial American actress who had starred for seven years on the U.S. television series “Suits.″ George Clooney, Serena Williams and Elton John attended their wedding at Windsor Castle, which ended with the royal couple kissing for their flag-waving fans and riding through the streets in a horse-drawn carriage. But the horses were barely back at the stable before pressures intensified on the couple, who became the Duke and Duchess of Sussex on their wedding day. [AP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Britain's Prince Harry and US TV star Meghan Markle tie the knot on Saturday in front of celebrity guests and tens of thousands of fans in a ceremony beamed around the world that will combine traditional pomp and modern twists. May 19, 2018 In "News" US TV star Meghan Markle joined Britain's Prince Harry at the altar on Saturday wearing a flowing white dress in front of a star-studded congregation as tens of thousands of fans cheered in the street and millions watched around the world. May 19, 2018 In "Relationships" Newlyweds Prince Harry and Meghan attended their first engagement as a married couple on Tuesday after their spectacular, tradition-defying wedding in Windsor Castle, which was watched around the world. May 22, 2018 In "News"