Popular actress, Anita Keyss has taken a swipe at fellow actors who strip it all down only to get fame. She advised such people to desist from such act as it doesn’t make sense. Speaking on nudity, especially in Nollywood, Anita described the act as crazy.“You don’t have to expose your body to become popular. It doesn’t make sense to me, If you believe in yourself and you know you have the talent, you don’t have to expose your body just to get fame,” she said. She stated further that real celebrities of the likes of Omotola Jolade-Ekeinde and Genevieve Nnaji didn’t expose their bodies to become famous. “They worked hard and its paying off.  So I don’t think you need to expose your body just to remain relevant in the movie industry. Doing so means you don’t believe in yourself and your talent.” Also, the actress also took time off to advise Nigerian celebrities who get carried away by adulation from their fans or allow their lifestyles to be dictated by their fans.  “It is all about you doing what you feel you are comfortable with and believing in yourself,” she said. Anita Keyss is set to release her new movie, Dry Tears, which focuses on the lifestyles of celebrities. The movie is the third major production by the actress. Vanguard News Nigerian actress, Anita Keys is set to release her movie, ‘Dry Tears’ which addresses the lives of celebrities. Dry Tears is the third major production from Anita, the first two are, Beauty of the Mind, and Silver Spoon. In a chat with Broadway, TV Anita speaks on a number of… January 26, 2020 In "Entertainment" Being a celebrated movie star always comes at a price. And taking up some extreme roles may come at even bigger price. This is something, Nollywood diva, Anita Joseph is learning the hard way as the ghosts of her role in the movie 'Open and Close' are beginning to haunt… January 22, 2017 In "Showtime People" By DAMILOLA SHOLOLA Anita Joseph is a talented Nollywood actress known mostly for her controversial nature. The actress has over the  years grown a thick skin to criticisms and wants people to know that she’s in the movie industry to be an actress in the true sense of the word.… August 16, 2014 In "Home Video People"