Why the Italian man diagnosed with coronavirus in Nigeria came to the country has been revealed. Lafarge Africa Plc, a cement manufacturer company in Ogun State, has on Sunday gave reason the company invited the forty-four year-old Italian man to the country. Segun Soyoye, Lafarge’s Industrial Director, said the man came to Nigeria, precisely Ewekoro in Ogun state to inspect some installations of machines bought from a Swedish firm. He said, “The Italian came for a business visit. He was in Lagos on Monday and slept at Airport Hotel, Ikeja. Our driver took him there, and when we observed abnormal temperatures and symptoms, we quickly instituted an Emergency Response Team which is led by the Company CEO; we have to find a way of analysing and identifying not only the Italian but also the other contacts. “Today (Saturday) is Day 3; they will be there for 14 days. We will continue to observe them, we have their database, showing their biodata and other information, he said. “The doctor is here and what he is doing is to check them on a regular basis. So far everybody is stable, they are not symptomatic, we are providing everything for them over there. “The other thing that I have not said is that the clinic that was used for the infected person is closed, disinfected and we moved everybody out. “All the guys on duty that day, they were also quarantined, so they will be there for 14 days as well”. Vanguard By James Ogunnaike The number of quarantined persons on the recent outbreak of the deadly disease, Coronavirus has increased to 39 as against 28 earlier reported. This number included those that have had contact with the Italian when he visited Lafarge Africa facility in Ewekoro included the driver who picked… February 29, 2020 In "News" LAGOS — Minister of State for Health, Senator Adeleke Olurunnimbe Mamora, yesterday gave a breakdown of the 100 people said to have had contact with the COVID-19 index case and have been traced by the government. March 2, 2020 In "Health" Following the first reported case of Coronavirus in Nigeria, building and concrete solutions company, Lafarge Africa Plc, has initiated medical protocol at her Ewekoro plant, a swift move the company says is in line with her core values of maintaining health and safety. A statement by made available to media… February 28, 2020 In "News"