FIRST Bank of Nigeria Limited was recently presented with the Oil and Gas Banker of Year 2019 award at the Patrons’ Dinner and Industry Awards  of the Nigeria International Petroleum Summit Speaking on the award, Chief Executive Officer, First Bank, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan said, “we take pride in this recognition, as it represents the nation’s identification with our leading role in promoting the growth of the oil and gas industry. We remain steadfast on being the financial partner of first choice to Nigerians and, indeed across Africa as we collectively strive towards the continued growth of the economy at large” Among other things, the event featured a panel discussion, with with Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, First Bank CEO, represented by Mrs. Bashirat Odunewu, the bank’s Group Executive, Energy & Infrastructure as a panelist to deliberate the topic “What are the key challenges when it comes to managing risk and generate sustainable long-term in-country value development environment”. Other speakers in the panel were Mrs. Olayemi Anyanechi, Managing Director, Partners Sefton Fross; Bank Anthony Okoroafor, Chairman, Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN); Mr. Bitrus Bako Nabasu, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum Resources; and Patrick Olinma, Executive Director, Oil & Gas Commercial, Total E&P Nigeria Ltd. FIRST Bank of Nigeria Limited will this week hold its 2019 FirstBank Agric Expo with the theme “Agricultural Value Chain – Spotlighting Opportunities and Managing Risks”. August 26, 2019 In "Business" FIRST Bank of Nigeria Limited has been named the first financial institution in Nigeria and the West-Africa sub-region to issue 10 million cards to customers across the country. This makes FirstBank the second bank in Africa to achieve this feat. October 16, 2017 In "Business" THE Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has rewarded FirstBank’s efforts in combating electronic fraud with two of the three awards up for grab in the keenly contested Nigerian Electronic Fraud Forum (NeFF) 2017 awards. January 1, 2018 In "Business"