Bimbo Esho, Managing Director, Evergreen Musical Company, on Sunday commends Fuji Legend, Wasiu Ayinde popularly called “KWAM 1″ for enlightening people on the preventive measures of COVID-19 during a recent live performance in Lagos. Esho gave the commendation while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. She said music was one of the fastest means of passing across information to the public which the musician had engaged. She, however, urged other musicians to do the same for adequate sensitisation at this critical period. ‘I appreciate this measure taken by KWAM 1, using his art to educate the world and relieve our tension on the present disease coronavirus that is ravaging the world. “Artists should be the mouthpiece of the society, let us have more of this,” she said. Esho said years ago, when there was an outbreak of Cholera, Ebenezer Obey also had a song on the disease adding that music was like a social calendar capable of keeping a history of important occurrences. According to her, during a period like this, musicians should engage music to pass messages across to caution and relieve the world on this strange virus. She said some ‘powerful’ prayers had also been offered by a Juju musician Ibitayo Jeje, in her music, praying against coronavirus and other related diseases. “Considering the situation at hand, may God’s protection continue to be with us all,” she said. Some stakeholders in the entertainment industry on Thursday advised government to fight piracy for indigenous music to thrive and safe them from going to extinction. June 8, 2017 In "Entertainment" Legendary Juju musician and evangelist, Chief Commander Ebenezer Obey, has admonished musicians not to see themselves as competitors, but rather as one united people, using their talents to make people happy. Obey, who made this remark during a press conference organized by Evergreen Musical Company, to create awareness for their… December 7, 2019 In "Entertainment" News of Victor Olaiya's death went viral in another day of grief, sending shockwaves throughout the Nigerian music industry, with many entertainers mourning and expressing their condolences. February 13, 2020 In "News"