The country’s attorney general said on Wednesday that prisoners convicted of minor offences and women with babies were among those who would be freed. Foreigners charged with involvement in with smuggling and drug trafficking would also be released and deported to their countries of origin. Among those to be released is journalist Fekadu Mahtemework. The magazine editor returned to Ethiopia after Prime Minister Ahmed Abiy came to power in 2018 at a time when thousands of political prisoners were freed, a state of emergency ended and numerous political parties unbanned. But the charges of tax evasion he faced in absentia were not dropped and he was sentenced to seven years in jail last October. Hotel quarantine for travellers Other measures to curb coronavirus that have been announced by the government include ordering most its employees to work from home from Wednesday and closing all land borders. All passengers travelling to Ethiopia are be quarantined for 14 days in eight hotels selected by authorities. Ethiopian citizens who cannot afford to pay will have their expenses covered by the government. More than 400 travellers have started their mandatory quarantine, according to a statement by the Ethiopian Public Health Institute. Ethiopia has 12 confirmed cases of Covid-19, the respiratory illness caused by coronavirus. vanguard Iran has temporarily freed around 85,000 prisoners including political detainees in a bid to stop the spread of coronavirus, the government said today. Judiciary spokesman Gholamhossein Esmaili said half of those released were 'security-related prisoners'. 'Also in the jails we have taken precautionary measures to confront the outbreak,' the spokesman… March 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The coronavirus was first confirmed in China in the city of Wuhan after which other cases were reported in Asian countries and the United States. The first suspected case of coronavirus in Africa was announced in Ivory Coast when a 34-year-old student who returned from Beijing showed flu-like symptoms. The… January 29, 2020 In "Health" Ethiopia on Friday announced a state of emergency after Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn announced his intention to step down amid unrest and political crisis. The state-run Ethiopian Broadcasting Corporation said “rhe ruling EPRDF coalition’s council met and decided to impose emergency rule in the Horn of Africa country.” The announcement… February 17, 2018 In "News"