A senior Australian politician tested positive for the new coronavirus and was quarantined in hospital on Friday, days after returning from Washington where he met Ivanka Trump and US Attorney General William Barr. Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton was in the United States last week for a meeting with members of the FiveEyes intelligence alliance — Australia, the United States, Britain, Canada, and New Zealand — that included Barr. He also met with US President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka on March 6, according to a photo posted by the Australian embassy in Washington, which shows the pair standing close together. It is not yet known when Dutton contracted the virus. “This morning I woke up with a temperature and sore throat,” said Dutton, an influential member of the government and a key architect of Australia’s controversial immigration laws. “It is the policy of Queensland Health that anyone who tests positive is to be admitted into hospital and I have complied with their advice.” Dutton said he feels “fine” but his diagnosis will raise concerns about whether other members of the cabinet and Prime Minister Scott Morrison may have been infected. Australia has seen around 184 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and three fatalities. Vanguard News Nigeria. US President Donald Trump will call almost half a dozen counterparts from around the globe Saturday, among them Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, the first foreign leader with whom he met after his election. January 28, 2017 In "News" Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Friday urged people not to gather in groups of more than 500 but said he would still go to a weekend rugby game, as health officials warned millions of residents will contract coronavirus within months. Australia has recorded 156 infections and three deaths from… March 13, 2020 In "Foreign" President Donald Trump’s eldest daughter, Ivanka Trump, has announced that she would take up an appointment in her father’s administration. March 30, 2017 In "News"