NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden warned that the use of surveillance to track coronavirus cases during the pandemic could continue once the crisis subsides, according to a report. “When we see emergency measures passed, particularly today, they tend to be sticky,” Snowden said in an interview with the Copenhagen International Documentary Film Festival, CNET reported. “The emergency tends to be expanded. Then the authorities become comfortable with some new power. They start to like it.” Snowden, who released highly classified information from the National Security Agency, said governments could extend the access they have to monitor people’s personal information during a crisis. During the coronavirus outbreak, governments could raise concerns about public health and send orders to smartphones and fitness trackers for information about pulse and heart rate. Once the pandemic ends, they could raise other fears, like terrorism, and continue to gather the data. “They already know what you’re looking at on the internet,” Snowden said. “They already know where your phone is moving. Now they know what your heart rate is, what your pulse is. What happens when they start to intermix these and apply artificial intelligence to it?” The report said the US government is working with Facebook and Google to use location data to keep track of where coronavirus cases are concentrated. Snowden fled to Russia after the Justice Department unsealed espionage charges against him in 2013. New York Post Vanguard Coronavirus crisis in Nigeria escalated yesterday as the number of cases hit 89. The figure of infections was 81 as of Friday night March 29, 2020 In "Health" Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently instruct the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, and Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, ICPC, to jointly track and monitor spending by federal agencies and state governors to combat Coronavirus, COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. March 23, 2020 In "Health" By Prince Osuagwu In anticipation of a possible economic lockdown in Nigeria, in response to the rampaging Coronavirus pandemic, Covid-19, telecom operators through their umbrella body, Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), has held an emergency meeting and listed conditions that would help them provide hitch-free service throughout… March 25, 2020 In "Technology"