South Africa has announced its first deaths from Coronavirus infection, and said cases there have passed the 1,000 mark. “This morning, we South Africans wake up with sad news that we now have our first deaths resulting from COVID-19,” the health ministry said on Friday. Both deaths took place in hospitals in the southern province of Western Cape. Security forces have begun enforcing a three-week nationwide lockdown in an effort to stem the spread of the virus. All but essential movement is forbidden and both the army and the police are enforcing the measures. Ahead of the midnight deadline there were long queues outside supermarkets as people stocked up on essentials. “This is unprecedented, not only in our democracy but also in the history of our country, that we will have a lockdown for 21 days to go out and wage war against an invisible enemy, coronavirus.” Under the terms, food shops are allowed to stay open, but alcohol sales are banned – and Police Minister Bheki Cele urged South Africans to stay sober during the lockdown. Jogging and dog walking are also prohibited. On Friday morning, however, local media showed pictures of busy streets and queues outside supermarkets in the townships where poverty and the volume of people make social distancing difficult. A day earlier, heavy traffic was reported on the main roads out of Johannesburg, despite a government appeal not to go on long journeys. Thousands of people thronged bus stations aiming to escape the capital and stay with family in rural areas, raising fears that they could take the virus to older relatives who are retired in farms and villages. The authorities have warned that anyone violating the rules faces six months’ imprisonment or a heavy fine. “If people are not complying, they (the military) may be forced to take extraordinary measures,” Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula warned. South Africa has already closed schools and banned gatherings of more than 100 people. Although Africa as a whole has not been hit as hard as other parts of the world by the virus, experts fear underfunded health services on the continent could be quickly overwhelmed by a sudden rise in cases. In South Africa there are additional fears for people living with HIV – particularly the estimated 2.5 million in South Africa who are not taking anti-retroviral drugs. Vanguard South Africa braced for a nationwide military-patrolled lockdown Thursday, joining other African countries imposing strict curfews and shutdowns in an attempt to halt the spread of the coronavirus across the continent. Some 57 million people will be restricted to their homes during South Africa's three-week total lockdown which begins at… March 26, 2020 In "News" South African president Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a 21-day national lockdown as the country’s coronavirus figures surged on Monday to over 400 from 274 as at Sunday. According to the president, the measure will start effectively Thursday, March 26. He said the move was to help disrupt the rise of… March 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" South African police have charged two men with attempted murder for allegedly continuing to go out after they tested positive for the coronavirus, exposing others to the infection. Police minister Bheki Cele announced the charges on Wednesday during a press conference detailing the enforcement of an incoming lockdown meant to… March 25, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"