Towards its drive to provide eco-friendly power products and salvage mission-critical equipment, Alternative Power and Consumer Electronics Products brand, Blue Gate, has displayed more capacities of its online UPS series to power back-up dealers and stakeholders across the country. Speaking at the double-presentation of the products to industry stakeholders in Lagos, the company’s Executive Director, Amauche Chidozie, said the company have paid a lot of attention on its processes and quality control mechanisms. She said it has also built a track record of excellence, durability, and reliability through its system of quality assurance procedures. Chidozie said: “We are constantly pushing ourselves, engaging in robust research and reengineering our processes to fully meet all standards and trending power backup lifestyle needs of our customers. “We are passionate about what we do and love to be of service to our dear customers and business associates. So we are here today as part of our service delivery to meet directly with our partners, show them more capacities of our online UPS series, and get their feedbacks on how we can serve them better.” Also, the Blue Gate Product General Manager, Rolland Emuobor, explained that the series are of advanced power backup technology that supplies and maintains continuous electricity supply direct from batteries at zero transfer time to connected equipment, while allowing users ample time switch to preferred power source. Emuobor said: ‘’Our Online UPS series are rightly pocket-friendly, easy to use, maintain and a necessity for mission-critical equipment used in our diagnostic centres and hospitals. “No one would want the equipment in a hospital theatre, for instance, to fail because of little time lag in power outages or changeovers during surgical operations. Blue Gate online UPS ensures that there is no nano-second time lag when changing to any power source. The product further provides assured guards to other industries and sensitive appliances like digital printers, bank ATMs, Server PCs, Air Traffic Control Rooms, elevators/lift/escalators, among others.” Blue Gate products range from 3 KVA to 100 KVA, its design caters to modern living, convenience, and durability. Unlike other UPS products in the country that offer less in terms of customer after-sale services,  Blue Gate products are very friendly and offer customer-centric after-sales services with guarantees. He added: “Any product you buy from us is an investment. Bluegate is distinct from the point of production to across the value chain, so it is very difficult to fake the products.” VANGUARD Frontliners in Uninterruptible Power Supply, (UPS) in the Computer Village Ikeja, Tripplesea Limited has assured its growing customers on one-year warranty package on any of its products including inverter batteries, Bluegate Online UPS which have continued to attract patronage from the Nigerian IT market. August 24, 2010 In "Technology" Nigeria today, is regarded as the biggest economy in Africa. However, its power sector is performing far below the level of an economy of this magnitude. Over half of the population has no access to grid-connected electricity and those who are connected to the grid suffer extensive power outages. October 31, 2018 In "Technology" ZITRONIX Engineering, an indigenous electronics manufacturing company established to provide effective power and electronic solutions is ready to partner with government, financial institutions to improve technology. The local but fast growing tech company which has asserted itself strongly and credibly in the minds of its customers and clients is set… November 19, 2016 In "Business"