Telecommunication network, MTN Nigeria recently, took its ‘Turn it up’ campaign to the maiden edition of the  ‘I Believe Summit 2020’ in Jos. The summit is an annual forum where young and enterprising minds engage in enlightened debates on issues hampering national development with a view to providing possible solutions. Manager, Go-to-Market, MTN Nigeria, Olugbenga Hammed, said “Amazing opportunities abound in the country for us to take advantage. We understand the importance of having these conversations to inspire Nigerians. That is why we are part of this summit. We will continue to encourage Nigerians to look within and seek better ways to provide solutions to the country’s challenges and turn it up for themselves.” The ‘I Believe Summit’ is powered by Project  Tour Nigeria, a non-governmental vehicle for national reconciliation meant to showcase the wealth of Nigeria’s social, economic, cultural and traditional heritage as well as the enormous tourism investment potential in the country. The Summit will hold in all states of the federation before proceeding for a finale in Abuja. VANGUARD By Ayo Onikoyi MTN Nigeria took its ‘Turn it up’ campaign to the maiden edition of the I Believe Summit 2020. The summit is an annual forum where young and enterprising minds engage in enlightened debates on issues hampering national development with a view to providing possible solutions. READ ALSO: Delivery… March 21, 2020 In "Entertainment" Telecommunications company, MTN Nigeria, has said that recent experiences have proven that for businesses to operate efficiently, promote productivity and improve agility, the drivers must activate changes in business modules, value delivery system and sometimes in the entire ecosystem. November 14, 2018 In "Technology" Mr Gbenga Adebayor is a key player in the telecom sector. He is widely known as the Chairman of Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria, ALTON but besides this, he is the Chief Executive Officer of Communications Network Support Services Limited, CNSSL, a telecom outsourcing company that provides network… November 9, 2010 In "Technology"