 A NON GOVERNMENTAL organisation, the African Centre for Leadership Strategy Development has said the North-East region accounts for nearly 60 per cent of the 13 million out-of-school children in the country. This, it said, is due to the twin factors of insurgency and insecurity in the area. The NGO based its findings on a survey it conducted recently. A baseline study conducted by the group, which heralded the implementation of the community-led Collective Action for Girl Education, indicated that Adamawa State has 888,634 out-of-school children. The disappointing figure forced the group to carry out survey in three local government areas of Maiha, Song and Numan as a way of addressing the issue. The Executive Director, Mr Monday Osasah, during a media briefing in Yola, said the high number of out of school children, OSC in the state prompted the survey. “The. centre, in a bid to change the narrative, trained 150 education stakeholders comprising traditional/religious leaders, PTA and opinion moulders as well as  adult education instructors. “The outcome of the training was followed by sensitization and campaign to their neighbours and relatives in their respective communities. The efforts led to increased enrolment of girls back in schools, including those who dropped out in the past due to pregnancy totalling 104,” he stated. He disclosed that seven peer learning clubs (advocate for education) were established to pave ways for learning between in-school and out-of-school girls with 254 girls who were taught basic Mathematics, English language,  skills training among others. He urged the state government to reactivate all the SDGs and ensure no child is left out or denied the right to education, especially the girl- child. Vanguard Abuja - The U.S. has signed a grant agreement of 801,000 dollars with the American University of Nigeria (AUN), Yola, to improve access to education services for internally displaced persons in Adamawa. Ms Maria Brewer, Chargé d’Affaires, U.S. Embassy, in her remarks at the agreement signing event in Abuja on… September 1, 2015 In "News" A non-governmental organisation, NGP, Youth Advocate for Change, has concluded plans to stage a one-day interactive forum on Advancing Inclusive Education in Lagos Slum Communities. February 26, 2020 In "News" Bauchi—The Centre for Information Technology and Development, CITAD, an international no- governmental organisation has disclosed that the north-east has the least adult literacy rate in Nigeria, with all states in the geo-political zone scoring lower than the national average rate. July 17, 2018 In "News"