Dr Kingsley Isitua Obiora, yesterday, in Abuja, formally assumed office as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), replacing Dr Okwu Nnanna, who exited from the Bank on February 2, 2020. Welcoming Dr Obiora on board, the Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele, congratulated him on his appointment, noting that he was assuming duty at a time when his experience was needed to ensure stability in the Nigerian economy. Assigning the new Deputy Governor to the Economic Policy Directorate, Mr Emefiele charged him to go beyond upholding the interest of the CBN to upholding the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians, majority of who he said desired positive impact in their daily lives. The Governor, who alluded to the youthfulness of Dr Obiora and some new Directors in the Bank, said the deliberate effort was being made by the Management of the Bank to assign more responsibility to the youth, who he noted possessed an energy that must be put to positive use for the good of Nigerians. While urging all present to work together to enable the Bank to achieve its objectives, Mr Emefiele charged them to strive to etch their names in the annals of the Bank as having contributed their quota to the overall development of the country. According to the Governor, who was flanked by Mrs Aishah Ahmad and Mr Folashodun Shonubi, the Deputy Governors in charge of Financial System Stability (FSS) and Operations, respectively, members of staff of the Bank were part of the monetary policy team that had to play the role of upholding the integrity of the Bank and policies that translate to making lives better for most Nigerians whom they represent in the Bank. In his remarks after subscribing to the relevant oath administered by the CBN Board Secretary and Director, Corporate Secretariat Department, Mrs Alice Karau, the new Deputy Governor expressed joy to be back at the CBN, promising to add value to the processes even as he solicited the cooperation of all in achieving his tasks. Dr Kingsley Isitua Obiora was nominated Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria on Thursday, January 16, 2020, by President Muhammadu Buhari and his appointment was confirmed by the Senate on Thursday, January 30, 2020. Vanguard Emma Ujah, Abuja Bureau Chief The Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions, yesterday screened Dr. Kingsley Obiora for the position of Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, urging him to bring his wealth of experience to bear in the task of assisting the Bank… January 30, 2020 In "News" Henry Umoru - Abuja PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has written the Senate for the screening and subsequent confirmation of Dr. Kingsley Isitua Obiora as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). President Buhari also asked the senators to confirm the appointment of Prof. Adeola Akande as Chairman of the… January 28, 2020 In "News" The Senate has received a request from President Muhammadu Buhari for the confirmation of Dr. Kingsley Isitua Obiora and Professor Adeola Akande as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria; and Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). January 29, 2020 In "News"