Despite measures to avoid deaths and stem the spread of coronavirus, the deadly pandemic has finally killed a 67 year old male who returned home following medical treatment in UK. Disclosing this via its verified twitter handle, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said, “The 1st  #COVID19 death in Nigeria has been recorded. The case was a 67 year old male who returned home following medical treatment in UK. He had underlying medical conditions- multiple myeloma & diabetes & was undergoing chemotherapy. Our thoughts are with his family”. Vanguard had reported the rise in the number of affected persons. Currently the country has a total number of 35 confirmed cases which include the son of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the last general elections, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Read the tweet below: The 1st #COVID19 death in Nigeria has been recorded. The case was a 67 year old male who returned home following medical treatment in UK He had underlying medical conditions- multiple myeloma & diabetes & was undergoing chemotherapy Our thoughts are with his family pic.twitter.com/A7STOjTQeW — NCDC (@NCDCgov) March 23, 2020  Details later: Vanguard The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has recorded first coronavirus death. A tweet from NCDC confirmed that the "The 1st #COVID19 death in Nigeria has been recorded. The case was a 67-year-old male who returned home following medical treatment in UK He had underlying medical conditions- multiple myeloma &… March 23, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Nigeria has recorded its first death from COVID 19 ( Coronavirus). According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the case was a 67-year-old male who returned following a medical procedure in UK He had underlying medical conditions- multiple myeloma and diabetes and was undergoing chemotherapy. March 23, 2020 In "News" It is no longer news that COVID-19 pandemic has forced nations across the world to adopt measures in a bid to contain the deadly outbreak. The World Health Organisation’s (WHO) declaration of the outbreak as a pandemic forced many countries to review entry by travellers. March 22, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"