GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike and outgoing chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers state, Bro Felix Obuah have emerged heroes of the seamless congresses of the party which ended Saturday. National Chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus and other chieftains adjudged Rivers PDP’s latest congresses as most exemplary demonstration of intra-party democracy with the development from the wards’ exercises climaxing in emergence of a new state executive without any incidence or ranchor. Wike as was applauded for a leadership style that has kept the party indivisible since being Rivers PDP Leader while Obuah earned encomiums for unwavering loyalty to party supremacy and dedication to duty that saw him steering the party to electoral victories in 2015 and 2019. Wike said of Obuah at the state congress, “If it were constitutionally possible for anyone to serve a third term, we would have allowed Felix Obuah to stay. It is going to be difficult to replace Obuah. Loyalty is not by mouth or seeing the Governor regularly. Loyalty is by conduct and things you can do at the back at the those you call leaders” “When the struggle to win back Rivers started 2013, we concluded that Obuah will not sell out. He stood firm, despite all temptations. Since he became chairman, he has never wavered. He has never sabotaged the State Government and the party.” On Wike’s influence over the seamless congresses, Rivers Commissioner for Information, Paulinus Nsirim described the Rivers Governor as “Symbol of democracy in Nigeria. As Leader of the Party in the state, he entrenched strong democratic ethos that gave everyone a sense of belonging in the choice of leaders. “He promoted internal democracy through extensive consultations with stakeholders and built the right consensus. This, no doubt, made it possible for all members of the Party to forge unbreakable alliances. “Throughout the process, there was no recorded incident of violence or disruption as members spoke with one voice. Contrary to the expectations of nay Sayers, the PDP family is even more united than ever before” National Chairman, Secondus, elder statesmen, Chief Sergeant Awuse and Prince Emma Anyanwu as several other party chieftains further praised the capacity, strength of character and administrative astuteness of Wike in “leading the state PDP in the right direction.” Vanguard As commendations herald the nomination of Rivers State Governor, Chief (Barr) Nyesom Ezenwo Wike for the prestigious United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDGs) “Global Human Settlements Outstanding Contribution Award” in far away New York City, in the United States of America, the State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),… September 22, 2017 In "News" The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers State, Bro. Felix Obuah has described the Governor of the Year Awards bestowed on Governor Nyesom Wike by The Sun and Authority Newspapers respectively as a reward for hard work and dexterity. December 26, 2016 In "News" By Egufe Yafugborhi - Port Harcourt Governor Nyesom Wike on Saturday vowed to use all he has to fight Amb Desmond Akawor, newly elected Rivers Stats Peoples Democratic (PDP) Chairman if he falters in sustaining dominance of the party in the state’s politics. Despite all 39 Rivers State PDP executive… March 21, 2020 In "Politics"