Dutch Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, warned in a televised address to the nation Monday that most residents would get coronavirus, but he ruled out a full lockdown like other European countries. Rutte says his government wants to build “group immunity” while waiting for a vaccine, by letting the least vulnerable people catch the virus while protecting the elderly and sick. This could take “months, or even longer”, he added, in the first such speech by a Dutch premier since the 1970s oil crisis. The Netherlands has already imposed its toughest ever peacetime restrictions including the closure of schools, restaurants and even cannabis cafes. “There’s no easy message to you this evening… The reality is that a large part of the Dutch population will be infected by the coronavirus. That is what the experts are telling us,” a grave-looking Rutte said. But he added that, unlike Italy or Spain which have imposed draconian measures on movement to curb the virus, the Netherlands is not going to go “completely locked”. “In that scenario, we would actually have to shut down our country for a year or even longer, with all its consequences,” he said, adding that the virus “could re-emerge immediately if the measures were withdrawn.” The Netherlands has confirmed 1,413 cases of COVID-19 disease including 24 deaths. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte called Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko Tuesday to ask Ukrainian forces to stop fighting around the MH17 crash site, a government spokesman said. July 29, 2014 In "News" The Netherlands said on Tuesday it would continue to provide humanitarian assistance to those in need, particularly women and girls, to mitigate the impact of insecurity and displacement occasioned by the activities of the Boko Haram sect in Nigeria. The Dutch Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, gave the assurance when he… November 26, 2019 In "News" Hurricane Irma has caused "huge damage" to St Martin, devastating its airport and port and leaving the Dutch part of the Caribbean island unreachable, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said Thursday. September 7, 2017 In "News"