 The major opposition party in the country, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday predicted an end for the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, even as it urged its national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole to clear himself of allegations of corruption leveled against him. This is even as the party chided party Oshiomhole for his alleged failed attempt to divert public attention from the rot in his party by blaming “the PDP and respected Nigerians for the self-inflicted infighting in the APC, for which he is largely responsible.” In a statement signed by the spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said only a party like the APC can “a character like Adams Oshiomhole, who is also overburdened by corruption allegation, find a space; a development that points only to the decadence that prevail in their party.” The statement read: “The national chairman of the APC needs to know that his party is yet to recover from the shambolic conduct of its affairs, particularly its congresses, in which lingering allegations of bribery, extortion, manipulations, excessive highhandedness and corruption had destroyed the fabrics of their party. “One would have expected Mr. Oshiomhole to eat the humble pie and accept responsibility for leading his party into irredeemable disarray, rather than accusing respected Nigerians and the PDP for the disgraceful infighting in his party over loot sharing, lust for power and inordinate ambition to continue to pillage our national patrimony. “It is equally appalling that rather than engaging himself in a soul searching and apologize to Nigerians over the destruction which the APC has caused our nation, Mr. Oshiomhole is busy mouthing diatribes against the PDP that created a robust economy which his confused party had vanquished. “The PDP is a focused, organized and purposeful political party, which Nigerians are rallying to rescue our nation from the incompetence, cluelessness, arrogance and mass failures of the APC in the last five years. “It is therefore instructive for Oshiomhole to note that the PDP is too busy to be interested in the APC or engage itself in any brickbat with a failed political party whose end has come. “APC can no longer beguile Nigerians as they have since come to know that it is nothing but a power-grabbing vehicle designed to fleece our nation and subjugate the citizens. “Mr. Oshiomhole should thus concentrate on his role as the undertaker of the APC until he buries the ashes of his fizzling party and save Nigerians the trauma of suffering which the APC has come to represent, instead of dabbling into the activities of our great party.” The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Friday lampooned the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress APC, Adams Oshiomhole over a statement he allegedly made on Thursday in Edo state. January 18, 2019 In "News" Ahead of Sunday’s flag-off of presidential election campaigns, the two major presidential candidates, President Muhammadu Buhari, and Atiku Abubakar were, yesterday, in war mood over the standing of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. November 15, 2018 In "Headlines" Adams Oshiomhole may not be a card-carrying member of the PDP.   As a matter of fact, he is the national chairman of the ruling APC.   Nevertheless, he has been a major blessing to the PDP and a systematic liability to the APC.   If one did not know any better, you… June 4, 2019 In "Femi Aribisala"