… Entertainment, conveners of Davido’s “A Good Time Tour” scheduled to take place across North America and Canada in March/April 2020, has postponed the ongoing tour. In a statement made  available to Showtime, the  management of Duke Concept Entertainment said the new tour dates will be announced as soon as the ban is lifted. The statement  reads thus: “We deeply regret to announce the postponement of all tour dates.” “Our team has tried everything in our ability to make this show happen; however, the government has restricted every large gathering at this time as seen in every major news.” “The new tour dates will be announced as soon as the ban is lifted. We will be issuing full refunds to all individuals please allow up to 2-3weeks. We share in your disappointment surrounding this news.” “As always, thank you for your understanding, patience, and continued support of Duke Concept. “A Good Time” already birthed in six cities and had 16 more performances scheduled. StoneBwoy’s “Live In New York” performance billed for Friday 13th March 2020 has also been postponed.” Also confirming the postponement of the tour, in an Instagram post,  the ‘Assurance’ crooner wrote “”I’m saddened to halt what has been a fantastic sold-out tour so far, but postponing is the right thing to do. The health and safety of my fans and staff is most paramount and nothing else matters. Be safe and see you all soon! God be with us all.” VANGUARD  After shutting down Chicago, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Washington DC, New York, California, Boston cities with sold out tickets, pop music star, Davido, has canceled his music tour of the United States to concentrate on the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme, he is currently undergoing in Nigeria. September 15, 2018 In "Music" Ace Nigerian and award-winning singer, David Adeleke a.k.a. Davido has postponed his tour of the US to complete the mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) programme. September 14, 2018 In "News" The past few days have been rather tumultuous and unsettling for Nigerian hip hop singer, David Adeleke popularly known as Davido with three of his friends being turned up dead by the police after a night of a birthday drinking binge of one of them, identified as Tagbo October 14, 2017 In "Music"