The Presiding Bishop of Living Faith Church Worldwide, also known as Winners Chapel, Bishop David Oyedepo, has said the present government of Nigeria is the worst thing that has ever happened to the country and that the days of President Muhammadu Buhari are numbered. Speaking during the church’s second service at Faith Tabernacle, Ota, Ogun State, on Sunday, March 8th, Oyedepo also criticised the hate speech bill being sponsored by Senator Sabi Abdullahi. “The government in this country is making a draconian law – hate speech. They said if you speak hatefully, you have committed murder. Out of someone who says I will kill you and the one who kills, who has committed a crime? I don’t understand which kind of animal farm we live in. I said stop stepping on my toes and you said that is hate speech but somebody kills and he is walking free on the streets. This is the most stupid and nonsensical idea anybody can think of. “I said you are bad and you said that is a crime. Must I say you are good when you are bad? “In my view you are bad and you shouldn’t be a leader. I have the right to say so. As far as I am concerned, I am a true born and thoroughly-bred Nigerian, an intelligent one. In my view, this is the worst thing that has happened to Nigeria — this government. It is the worst and in fact, it is like a curse.” he said Oyedepo also  said the days of this present government in the office are numbered ”their days in office are numbered.” “I have been here for some time and I led the first prayer and fasting for Nigeria in 1979. I am not a baby in the affairs of Nigeria. This is the worst government, a government with no direction. Their days are numbered. I can tell you as a prophet that their days are numbered” he said. VANGUARD The head of Living Faith Church also known as Winners Chapel, Bishop David Oyedepo has berated the federal government for non-performance. December 7, 2019 In "News" ...lampoons FG on non-performance By Olayinka Ajayi The head of Living Faith Church also known as Winners Chapel, Bishop David Oyedepo has berated the Federal government for non-performance. Speaking at last encounter night of Shiloh 2019 on Friday, the Bishop who lampooned the lobby and sponsor of the hate speech… December 6, 2019 In "News" ‎The presiding Bishop of the Living Faith Church Worldwide, David Oyedepo has urged Christians to obey God’s word to be successful in the New Year. January 1, 2017 In "News"