Schools in Scotland and Wales will shut on Friday, officials said, with England expected to follow suit as Britain unveiled planned emergency powers to deal with the spiralling coronavirus outbreak. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has come under mounting pressure to close schools, as other European governments have done, particularly in light of increasing staff shortages. But even as he told parliament a decision would be taken “imminently”, the devolved governments in Cardiff and Edinburgh stole a march by announcing their own closures by Friday at the latest. “At this stage I cannot promise that they will reopen before the summer holidays,” which normally begin in July, said Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon. The announcements came as the effects of the pandemic, which has seen 2,626 confirmed cases in Britain and 71 deaths, begin to bite. The FTSE 100 slumped again, dropping as much as 5.0 percent in morning trade, while the pound hit its lowest level since 1985 against the dollar, touching $1.1828. Lawmakers were told to stay away from their weekly parliamentary question time with Johnson and those who did attend sat at a distance from one another to try to reduce their risk of infection. Some 25 MPs, including a cabinet minister, are already thought to have isolated themselves. A leading disease expert advising the government warned the area around parliament was a hotspot. “There’s a lot of COVID-19 in Westminster,” epidemiologist Professor Neil Ferguson tweeted, as he announced that he had also developed symptoms. In other developments: Johnson on Tuesday said the government was on a war footing, as he escalated measures to limit the human and economic cost of the outbreak. The government has now recommended household isolation, home-working, an end to mass gatherings including sporting events, unnecessary social contact and overseas travel. Chief scientific adviser Patrick Vallance said 55,000 Britons could have the virus at a “reasonable” estimate. A huge package of support for businesses to help them survive the tough new social measures has been announced, including government-backed loans of at least £330 billion ($395 billion, 360 billion euros). Sweeping emergency powers are now to be introduced in parliament for up to two years, including proposals allowing police to detain potentially infected people to be tested. Health Secretary Matt Hancock said: “The Emergency Coronavirus Bill… will only be used when it is absolutely necessary and must be timed to maximise their effectiveness.” The measures “give the government the powers it needs to protect lives”, he added. The bill includes plans to boost the health workforce with volunteers, shutting airports and other transport hubs if security cannot be guaranteed, and using more video hearings in courts. The legislation is expected to pass unopposed, given the cross-party involvement in drawing it up, and become law before parliament goes into recess on March 31. But some opposition lawmakers voiced concern at the sweeping nature and duration of the proposals, and the effect on civil liberties. Some argued they should be regularly renewed by parliament. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The Ogun State government said on Friday it has discharged the 40 persons that reportedly had contact with the coronavirus index case. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, disclosed this at a press briefing in Abeokuta. Coker said since the first case was confirmed, the state had immediately… March 13, 2020 In "News" The number of people infected with coronavirus topped 110,000 across the world as the outbreak reached more countries and caused more economic damage. DEATHS/INFECTIONS More than 110,000 people have been infected by the coronavirus across the world and over 3,800 have died, according to a Reuters tally of government announcements.… March 9, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" https://youtu.be/l7DYovMiEjU President Donald Trump said Friday he was declaring a national emergency -- "two very big words" -- to free up federal resources to combat coronavirus. Speaking in the White House Rose Garden, Trump said the action would "unleash the full power of the federal government." Trump is declaring both… March 13, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"