Zamfara Commissioner of Security and Home Affairs, Alhaji Abubakar Dauran, on Thursday, confirmed the killing of seven persons by bandits at Malele village, Mutunji District of Dansadau emirate in Maru local government area of the state. Dauran told newsmen in Gusau that the incident occurred on Tuesday at Malele village. The commissioner said: “The Emir of Dansadau, Alhaji Hussaini Umar had informed me on the Tuesday Malele village attack by the bandits which left seven innocent persons dead. “We earlier have been receiving reports by locals that they noticed the incursion into the state by suspected armed bandits who we believe are those running away from the neighbouring states of Kebbi, Kaduna and Niger having been pursued by the security from those states. “We are however lucky that after the attack on the Malele community, the bandits had disagreement between themselves and they killed each other, but we have no information of an attack on any other community around Dansadau.” However, Mahammadu Malele, an eye witness told journalists that the bandits had on the day of the attack, blocked the Gusau-Dansadau road, close to Malele village where they killed three persons including a 15-year-old girl, whose name was given as Fatima, before they entered Malele. He said the bandits also wreaked havoc at Babban Kwari; a neighbouring village where they killed scores and burnt their houses and properties. He said that 16 corpses comprising 14 males and Two females were recovered after the attacks. He all the victims had been buried according to Islamic rites in the presence of the Emir of Dansadau, Alhaji Hussaini Umar. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. WHAT could have resulted in a repeat of the Chibok and Dapchi school girls’ abductions was averted in Zamfara State on Wednesday night when bandits stormed Government Girls Comprehensive Secondary School, Moriki in Zurmi Local Council of Zamfara State. May 3, 2019 In "Headlines" Troops have killed eight bandits in an exchange of gunfire in Maru Local Government area of Zamfara. May 11, 2018 In "News" Zamfara Government has summoned an emergency meeting with Fulani leaders over attack on an outpost in which nine soldiers were killed in Sunke village of Anka local government area. Senior Special Assistant to Governor Bello Matawalle on Security Matters, Alhaji Abubakar Dauran, told newsmen in Gusau on Saturday that the… October 6, 2019 In "News"