In its determined effort to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus, the Oyo State Task Force on COVID-19 has activated emergency Operating Centres (EOCs) in the state. As contained in a press statement on Sunday night by Governor Seyi Makinde’s Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr. Taiwo Adisa, the Task Force, headed by the governor himself, also on Sunday named Dr. Taiwo Ladipo of the Ministry of Health as the Incident Manager in charge of the Operating Centres. In addition, a five-member committee of experts has been approved to act as sub-committee for the EOCs. A statement further confirmed the decisions reached the second meeting of the COVID-19 Task Force held at the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan, on Sunday. The statement quoted the state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr. Bashir Bello, as affirming the release of two dedicated lines to coordinate COVID-19 related emergencies.
The numbers are 08095394000 and 08095863000. The statement also confirmed that Dr. Bello, in a brief submitted to the Task Force indicated that the EOCs started 24-hour operations on Sunday, March 22, 2020. According to Dr. Bello, the State Surveillance Team is directly following up the suspected coronavirus case in the state. The suspect was said to have recently arrived Oluyole, Ibadan, from the United States of America. “It must be noted that she arrived in Nigeria on the 8th of March and today 22nd of March is her 14th-day post-arrival, which has thus completed the isolation period,” the statement read. The statement re-emphasised the need for the people of Oyo State to observe standard procedures of engagement at this time by maintaining social distance, regular hand washing and use of sanitisers. The statement further read: “We also encourage Nigerians returning from COVID-19 affected countries to maintain the globally accepted protocol by self-isolating for 14 days and reporting any untoward conditions to the State medical personnel. “Let us also use this opportunity to reaffirm that all schools are to remain closed till after the Easter holidays and until the State re-evaluates the situation on the ground.” Vanguard Sets up task force on Coronavirus in Ibadan today By Adeola Badru Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has stated that he took responsibility for whatever lapses in judgement occasioned by the conduct of the Southwest Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rally in Ibadan. The governor's statement followed series of backlashes… March 20, 2020 In "News" ...Experts speak, insist on handwashing By Chioma Obinna As at 11:34 GMT, March 6, a total of 100, 242 coronavirus cases, 3,408 deaths and 55,812 recovered had been recorded across the world. 94 countries are affected. Since the outbreak of coronavirus, also known as COVID-19, the social media in Nigeria… March 8, 2020 In "Health" Victor Ogunyinka Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde has announced that the confirmation test for the suspected case of coronavirus at Bodija area of Ibadan has come out positive. Seyi Makinde, in a short thread on Twitter, revealed that the result was released at 17:35 PM of March 21, 2020. Oyo… March 22, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"