Africa’s most successful media entrepreneur and blogger, Linda Ikeji, has reaffirmed her commitment to women empowerment by getting set for the yearly women empowerment programme titled “Selfmade Woman Conference” on April 25, 2020, in Lagos, Nigeria in partnership with ECOBANK. “I am very passionate about women and very inspired by successful women. I want more women to believe in themselves, fight for their dreams, be financially independent, believe that there’s nothing they can’t accomplish. The conference is to mentor and inspire women with dreams and aspirations.” Speaking further, Linda said, “It seems the world is more skewed towards making a man more successful than women, or at least that’s the narrative most of our generation was given. “So, those of us who have broken through the myth has the duty to take as many other women as possible with us. We need more women to succeed. We need more women to head conglomerates. We need more women making an impact. We need more women shattering tables,” Linda said of the conference. The blogger has over the years used her voice and platform to encourage young Nigerian women to be financially independent and resourceful while providing funding and support for them to kick start their businesses. Since 2015, Linda Ikeji has given over N30million of her own personal money to empower over 40 female entrepreneurs, with quite a few of them going on to have successful small scale businesses The first edition of the “Selfmade Woman Conference” which held in April 2017 was successful as it hosted over 3,000 young women. Vanguard Foremost Nigerian blogger and entrepreneur, Linda Ikeji, recently launched a new social media website, Linda Ikeji Social (LIS), a social media platform which innovatively fuses news reporting, social interaction and online shopping all in one place. In this chat, Ikeji discusses the secrets behind her career, how she has been… November 27, 2016 In "Technology" Laura Ikeji-Kanu, newly married sister to celebrity blogger, Linda Ikeji seems to be gunning for the troubled waters with her recent outburst on social media. The celebrity fashion blogger who tied the nuptial knots with her heartthrob, Ogbonna Nwankwo, on Thursday says being married means nothing to her. January 23, 2017 In "Entertainment" THE Nigerian entertainment industry experienced its share of highs, lows and tragedy in 2018. The death of music legend, Ras Kimono and his wife, Efemena Okedi, which shocked the industry. There were also controversies, feuds and the premiere of groundbreaking movies which defined the outgoing year. But beyond all that,… December 28, 2018 In "Entertainment"