The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has tested negative for coronavirus but has decided to remain in self-isolation. In a statement, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, said the result is that of the rapid diagnostic test, while the government awaits the result of the PCR test. According to him, “I can confirm that the governor tested negative for coronavirus when he ran the rapid diagnostic test for the virus. However, we are currently awaiting the result of a more conclusive PCR test.” “In the meantime, the governor has decided to continue to work in self-solation and he is asymptomatic,” he added. Recall that Governor Obaseki went into self-isolation and sent his samples for testing after two persons he met some days ago, tested positive for coronavirus. Recall that the governor went into isolation after have contacts with one of the cases who tested positive. In a statement, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, said the governor has sent his samples for testing. “The governor has gone into self-isolation after the Governor of Bauchi State, Senator Bala Mohammed and Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, tested positive for coronavirus. “The governor had met Senator Mohammed at the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) and National Economic Council (NEC) meetings. He also visited Mr Kyari.” He said although the governor is not showing any symptoms of the virus, he has taken the necessary precaution to self-isolate to protect people that may otherwise come in contact with him. Vanguard LAGOS — As Nigeria yesterday confirmed two new cases of COVID-19,  bringing the number of confirmed cases to 46, Rivers and Kogi states have shut their borders to stop the spread of the virus in their states. March 26, 2020 In "News" Following his close contact with the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Muhammed and Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, who have both tested positive for coronavirus, the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has gone into self-isolation. In a statement, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and… March 25, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Following his close contact with the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Muhammed and Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, who have both tested positive for coronavirus, the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has gone into self-isolation. March 25, 2020 In "News"