President of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, Professor Francis Faduyile has boosted that he will beat Governor Rotimi Akeredolu for the All Progressives Congress, APC, governorship ticket and thereafter win the October 10 governorship election. The Professor of Pathology, who said that the state needs someone who could explore all the potentialities of the state for socio-economic development of Ondo, was optimistic that he would defeat the incumbent Akeredolu in the APC primaries. Faduyile had in 2011 contested and lost the seat of Okitipupa Constituency I at state House of Assembly on the platform of Action Congress of Nigeria, ACN. Also, in 2015, he contested for the ticket of APC to represent Okitipupa/Irele Federal Constituency and lost. He is however sure that he would clinch the party’s governorship ticket. Speaking on the crisis of the APC, Faduyile appealed to “all the disgruntled members to embrace peace, and urged the National Reconciliation Committee led by Chief Bisi Akande to handle the crisis with care. The aspirant who is from the southern senatorial district of Ondo lamented the lingering power outage in the area noting that the previous administrations in 10 years could not find solution to it. According to him the power outage had undermined socio-economic activities in the district, which he said had seriously affected the Gross Domestic Production, GDP, and the Internally Generated Revenue, IGR, of the state. He, therefore, promised to fix the power outage problem within his first month in office if voted in as governor. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo and Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of.Ondo Statr moved the #NextlevelEngagement and the house - to-house campaign train of the All Progressives Congress, APC, to Okitipupa, Ajagba and other communities in Irele local government, Ondo South Senatorial district. February 2, 2019 In "News" A leading governorship aspirant of the All Progressive Congress APC in Ondo state, Dr Olusegun Abraham Saturday alleged that his colleagues that were not sure of their chances had "kidnapped" delegates. August 27, 2016 In "News" AS governor Rotimi Akeredolu boasted that he would again win the party's governorship ticket, the aggrieved party leaders in the Unity Group yesterday kick started the process of picking a consensus candidate amongst them. March 2, 2020 In "News"