Dr. Kingsley Isitua Obiora, yesterday, in Abuja,  formally assumed office as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), replacing Dr. Okwu Nnanna, who exited from the Bank on February 2, 2020. Welcoming Obiora on board, the Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, congratulated him on his appointment, noting that he was assuming duty at a time when his experience was needed to ensure stability in the Nigerian economy. Assigning the new Deputy Governor to the Economic Policy Directorate, Emefiele charged him to go beyond upholding the interest of the CBN to upholding the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians, majority of who he said desired positive impact in their daily lives. The Governor, who alluded to the youthfulness of Obiora and some new directors in the apex Bank, said deliberate effort was being made by the Management of the Bank to assign more responsibility to the youth, who he noted possessed energy that must be put to positive use for the good of Nigerians. According to Emefiele members of staff of the Bank were part of the monetary policy team that had to play the role of upholding the integrity of the apex bank and policies that translate to making lives better for most Nigerians whom they represent in the bank. In his remarks after subscribing to the relevant oath administered by the CBN Board Secretary and Director, Corporate Secretariat Department, Mrs. Alice Karau, the new Deputy Governor expressed joy to be back at the CBN, promising to add value to the processes even as he solicited the cooperation of all in achieving his tasks. Obiora was nominated Deputy Governor of the CBN on Thursday, January 16, 2020 by President Muhammadu Buhari and his appointment was confirmed by the Senate on Thursday, January 30, 2020. Vanguard Use your youthful energy for Nigeria- Emefiele charges Emma Ujah Dr Kingsley Isitua Obiora, yesterday, in Abuja, formally assumed office as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), replacing Dr Okwu Nnanna, who exited from the Bank on February 2, 2020. Welcoming Dr Obiora on board, the Governor,… March 2, 2020 In "Business" Emma Ujah, Abuja Bureau Chief The Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions, yesterday screened Dr. Kingsley Obiora for the position of Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, urging him to bring his wealth of experience to bear in the task of assisting the Bank… January 30, 2020 In "News" THE Central bank of Nigeria, CBN’s governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, yesterday, announced major changes in the bank by reassigning the deputy governors. In line with his vision of entrenching a more professional and people focused central bank, Emefiele approved the redeployment of the bank’s Deputy Governors. June 19, 2014 In "News"