The management of the University of Lagos, UNILAG has directed that all students should leave the hostels as precautionary measures against Coronavirus. This was contained in a statement by the management. The release read: Following the increase of identified cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in the country, the University of Lagos Management, at a meeting held with the Provost and Deans Committee on Thursday, March 19, 2020, resolved to close the University. “Subsequently, Senate at an emergency meeting held today, Friday, March 20, 2020, approved the resolution in accordance with the order issued by the Federal Government, Ministry of Education and the National Universities Commission that all schools nationwide should be closed for the period of ONE MONTH effective from Monday, March 23, 2020, as a proactive step aimed at preventing the spread of the virus. “In view of the above, Management hereby directs that latest by 4:00 p.m. on Saturday, March 21, 2020, all students should vacate the hostels and return home. Resumption date is subject to review as developments unfold. “Members of the University community are enjoined to follow precautionary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. “Management wishes everyone safety and good health during this period.” Similarly, Yaba College of Technology, Yabatech, has directed that all students should vacate the hostels this Saturday. In a release signed by the management, all academic activities are to be suspended until further notice The statement read: ”  As part of measures to contain and prevent the spread of the Coronavirus, CONVID-19 throughout the country, approval for the closure of the College for a period of one month commencing from Monday 23rd March 2020. As a result, all academic activities are hereby suspended until further notice. Students are to vacate halls of residence by 12 noon tomorrow, 21st March 2020. ” Vanguard WHEN Victor was offered admission to study education at the University of Lagos, UNILAG, Akoka, Lagos in the 2018/2019 academic year, it was good news to his family. He had earlier written the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination twice without success. His university of first choice was always UNILAG - his… January 16, 2020 In "Education" The Management of the College of Medicine of the University of Lagos read with reservation a publication not Vanguard in which students of the College of Medicine were alleged to have lamented that the toilets and bathrooms in the hostels are in deplorable condition and that the accommodation fees they… December 26, 2018 In "Education" By Adesina Wahab The Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos, UNILAG, Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, has raised the alarm that some people are encroaching on the university's land, especially from Iwaya end. Ogundipe said the university is currently locked in a legal battle with some of the encroachers. He stated this in Lagos… December 26, 2019 In "Education"