There is nothing without God’s knowledge. I will say thanks to the Almighty for making it happen because I heard it has never happened before. I remember that even when I dropped the album years back,  it was well accepted as well. This is beyond my imagination. One thing I know is that the kind of music I do never fades. In whatever you’re doing don’t limit it to just today but always think about tomorrow. I may be singing with slangs, but all the slangs I use have meanings and that is why Egungun Be Careful is still relevant today. Egungun Be Careful is just like a warning. You may be going out with a lady who doesn’t suit you but you don’t know and people will be telling you that you better be careful with the lady. I sang the song then for fun, but I’m surprised that it is trending again all of a sudden. The fact is that before you can do such, it means you must have spent millions. I think it’s God’s work because calls came in from outside Nigeria as well and that was why I said it from the beginning that everywhere you go na God. Everywhere, not only from Nigeria. When the album was released by Mr. Gbenga Adewusi of Bayowa Films and Records International, I collected my money and I am still collecting my royalties from it. Now that it is trending again in a bigger way, I am still making my money from it, so, it is a plus for me. I thank my stars and I  appreciate all the fans who gave me the opportunity for more recognition. Very soon, but by next week we will know the date we’re shooting the video. Everywhere you go na God. Even if you visit Babalawo or Alfa or Woli, if God doesn’t stamp it, believe me, nothing will happen. I think it’s a plus for my brand as well. Some people have criticised my brand before but now I have a lot of followers both in the Fuji and Hip Hop world, so I thank my stars and that is why I also appreciate Naira Marley. He was supposed to be on the Egungun Be Careful remix with Zlatan and I,  but he was on his way to Dubai on the day we were recording. Aside from Egungun Be Careful we can still do something else. I wouldn’t want too many remixes of the song.  After this one with Zlatan, maybe we can do two more then close the chapter and move on to something else. I am the paramount king of music. Egungun Be Careful is a song that “re-blow” me. I appreciate the Hip Hop people. In the olden days if you want to listen to Hip Hop you have to listen to the appropriate ones. Either you listen to Michael Jackson, Bobby Brown or Usher because we didn’t have many of our people doing that genre then, but it is a different ball game right now. You can see that I and some of my other Fuji colleagues have also mingled with the Hip Hop acts. The kind of song that we sing is traditional music and there is no way it can fade. Hip Hop is just like a borrowed culture, but we thank God that it is now in the hands of Nigerians, even American artistes are trying to feature Nigerian artistes. More than a million copies and I’m still making money from it. I have made more connections and more money this past one week, trust me. There is a future for Fuji music. Like Alhaji Sikiru Ayinde Barrister who died years back, his songs are still selling. When you want to listen to sensible music you have to listen to Fuji, so it can never die. No one can say they are fulfilled. All I can say is, thanks to God Almighty for blessing me and making me comfortable. Dangote and Adenuga are still working, they can’t say they are fulfilled. Nobody should stop me. I’ll continue to do that which I know how to do best. When it’s time, God will stop me by Himself. I love all the Fuji artistes, but the truth is, you only know yourself, you don’t know other people’s minds and intentions. All I know is that my heart is pure towards others. I want to use this medium to plead with all Fuji artistes to embrace love. I’m not saying there aren’t clashes among hip-hop artistes too, but it’s not a do or die affair. It doesn’t affect their relationships, that’s why we see a lot of them doing collaborations. Vanguard News Iceberg Slim, born Olusegun Olowokere is a US-born and bred Nigerian rapper who has collaborated with the top names in both Nigerian and the US music scene. He was recently courted by the media in both Nigeria and Ghana when the delectable Ghanaian actress, Juliet Ibrahim, revealed that it is… September 16, 2017 In "Entertainment" Although she can be tagged a success, not everything about her career has been smooth-sailing. She has also earned both her “bad and good girl” reputation for sure. In fact, since she made her acting debut in the 2005 Ghanaian movie, “Crime to Christ,” starring alongside Majid Michel, Juliet Ibrahim… February 2, 2019 In "Entertainment" From living in the street, James Oluwajuwonlo Edahi, popularly known as Jaywon, broke into the music industry with the hit song ‘File Be’ and since then, has remained relevant in the industry. June 11, 2016 In "Entertainment"