BY JIMITOTA ONOYUME WARRI:  FEDERAL government has been urged to drop charges against Ijaw leader, Chief Government Ekpemupolo aka Tompolo , saying the move will further consolidate peace in the Niger Delta region.  A chieftain of ijaw Youth Council, IYC and aspirant for the office of Secretary General in the forthcoming IYC election, Comrade Frank Pukon told newsmen in Warri, Delta state   that the government should consider the peace move , adding that it should also unfreeze Tompolo’s account.  He said the prolong manhunt for Tompolo  should be ended as a strategy  to deepen peace  in the region , saying the government  stand to gain massively .  Pukon further hailed the commitment of Tompolo to peace and development in the Niger Delta region, adding that Ijaw nation was proud of him.   “We cannot be at rest and be peaceful when Tompolo, our father and leader’s  life is under threat. We cannot be mute when our leader is not at peace.  You can’t tend to be a friend to the children and hate the father, such is an act of back stabbing. We will not sleep until we see Tompolo, our father and our leader is at peace with the Government”, he appealed .  AMID tight security,  Ijaw nation yesterday, celebrated the 47th birthday anniversary of ex-militant leader, Government Ekpemupolo aka Tompolo, re-affirming their demand for true federalism. April 13, 2018 In "News" Delta Ijaw Youth Assembly, DIYA, has condemned the purported invitation and probe of Chief Government Ekpemupolo, aka Tompolo, on the media by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, over an alleged N13 billion Marine University land issue, saying that the acquisition process followed due process. December 16, 2015 In "News" Hours after a court in Lagos ordered the arrest of former militant leader, Government Ekpemupolo, aka Tompolo over alleged fraud, suspected ex-militants, Thursday night, blew up a gas pipeline in Warri South-West Local Government Area, Delta State conveying gas from Escravos –Warri- Lagos - Abuja, property of the Nigeria Gas… January 16, 2016 In "News"