Algeria Athletics Federation said yesterday that hosting the 2020 Africa Championships billed for June 24-28 is no longer feasible following the unabated spread of the coronavirus. This coming on the heels of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics being postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic, which has grounded almost all major sporting activities in 2020. “Following the magnitude of the pandemic and the containment and awareness measures decided by the public authorities, the two sports authorities decided to postpone these championships to the summer of 2021,” said Algeria Athletics Federation (FAA) on their website. Organisers are now awaiting a new date to be set for the Olympics before setting their own date for the championships, which was last hosted by Delta State in 2018. Top African athletes like Blessing Okagbare, Marie-Josée Ta Lou, Akani Simbine, Amos Nijel, Hugues Fabrice Zango participated in Asaba 2018. The African Athletics Confederation has given its thumbs up for the indefinite postponement. The postponement of the Athletics championships follows the cancellation of the African Cross Country Championships which was to be held in Lome, Togo on April 8. CAA moved the event to March 2021, the same month as the World Cross Country championships. Vanguard China suspended all football in the country Thursday, hours after the World Indoor Athletics Championships and World Cup skiing were postponed, adding to a long list of sports events hit by the coronavirus outbreak. The world's most populous country has become an increasing powerhouse in hosting international sport in recent… January 30, 2020 In "Sports" International Olympic Committee (IOC) president Thomas Bach on Sunday said the 2020 Tokyo Olympics would not be cancelled but that a postponement was an option as the world grapples with the coronavirus pandemic. "The IOC executive board emphasised that a cancellation of the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 would not solve… March 22, 2020 In "Sports" Italian football federation (FIGC) president Gabriele Gravina said Wednesday he was determined that the Serie A season would be concluded even going into August. All sport in Italy has been suspended until April 3 as a result of the coronavirus pandemic which has forced the postponement of Euro 2020 and… March 26, 2020 In "Sports"