Universal School of Aviation (USA), Lagos, Nigeria has received the prestigious Global Excellence Award from the United Kingdom, U.K.  The international award was issued by the Acquisition International (AI) in London, United Kingdom.  It’s Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Dr Onifade Eedris who disclosed this on Wednesday in Lagos, said the awards were presented to Universal School of Aviation for their Excellence in Aviation Training Services in Nigeria.  “This is the first award we are receiving in the year 2020 and we are very delighted that it’s an international award,”’ Dr Onifade said.  According to the Managing Director, the Global Excellence Award from the United Kingdom is just another remarkable achievement of the  Universal School of Aviation, Nigeria.  He said in 2019,  the multi-award-winning aviation institute received over 10 recognitions, both within and outside the country.  Onifade said: ”We will not rest on our oars, we will continue to carry out our operations in accordance with international best practices in the school of aviation globally.  ”This awards and recognition encourage us to push further in the delivery of Aviation training.  ”We wish to appreciate everyone who has contributed to the success of the Universal School of Aviation.”  Meanwhile, Dr Onifade has also been nominated top 100 CEO in Africa. The award is due to hold anytime this year.  Universal School of Aviation has its campus in Lagos and Abuja and is approved by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA).  In a record breaking achievement, Universal School of Aviation, popularly known as USA becomes the first approved aviation school in Nigeria to have an approved satellite campus in the history of aviation training in the country. March 20, 2019 In "News" IN a record breaking achievement, Universal School of Aviation, popularly known as USA becomes the first approved aviation school in Nigeria to have an approved satellite campus in the history of aviation training in the country. March 28, 2019 In "Education" THE Universal School of Aviation (USA), has been awarded the fastest growing aviation school in the continent at the just concluded African Quality Achievement Awards. The award, organized by the World Quality Alliance, held yesterday at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, had in attendance dignitaries from all over the continent and beyond… September 11, 2017 In "Education"