Cross River state governor, Prof Ben Ayade Monday night declared that all entry points into the state by Land, Sea and air are hereby locked down stressing that access will only be by thorough screening regime. He also declared that LG elections scheduled for Saturday, March,28 remain suspended indefinitely. He made the declaration in a press release signed by his Special Adviser, Media & Publicity, Mr Christian Ita and made available to Vanguard late night Monday. Read the full statement below: In view of the reality of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, the state governor, His Excellency, Sir Ben Ayade, has issued the following directives: 1. All the entry points into Cross River State (land, air and water) are hereby locked down. Access will be based on passing a thorough screening regime. 2. The Local Government Council elections scheduled to hold on Saturday, March 28, 2020, is suspended indefinitely. 3. All educational institutions in the state, both public and private must shut down by tomorrow, Tuesday , March 24, 2020 until further notice. 4. Civil servants, except those on essential services (medical personnel and revenue officers), should with immediate effect, stay away from work for an initial period of 2 weeks 5. All social,cultural and religious activities are hereby suspended and essential activities must not have a crowd beyond 5 persons 6. Every tricycle (keke) and taxi can carry only one passenger at a time and must have hand sanitizers for use by their passengers 7. Buses are henceforth permitted to have only two passengers on a seat with the drivers mandated to sanitize their vehicles after every trip 8. All public areas, pubs, bars and restaurants are limited to five customers at a time. 9. All transport companies must keep a travel manifest for inbound and outbound passengers. They must also provide hand washstands and hand sanitizers in their buses. Passengers are consequently encouraged to wash their hands with soap and water and sanitize them before boarding. 10. All Corporate and business organizations in the state must keep visitors registers as well as take the temperature checks of guests and visitors using a non-contact infra-red thermometer. Any guest with high temperature above 38 degrees Celsius must be reported immediately to the COVID-19 emergency center. 11. The Commissioner for Health should immediately set up COVID-19 adhoc monitoring unit to enforce compliance to all preventive measures as highlighted. The governor urges absolute compliance from our people with the above guidelines for our common safety, even as government ramps up efforts to ensure the state remains safe and COVID-19 free. Let’s stay safe. Vanguard Nigeria News In a bid to protect the state against any case of the deadly CoronaVirus disease (COVID-19), the Governor Sir Ben Ayade has intensified efforts towards prevention by adopting strict screening  exercise at all entry points to the State such as, land boarders, airports, as well as seaports. February 29, 2020 In "News" With the declaration of the Coronavirus outbreak as a global pandemic by World health Organisation and the confirmation of COVID-19 cases in Lagos, Ogun and Neighboring Cameroon, Cross River State has doubled its effort to safe guard its citizens and residents while pushing strong messages about the virus to all… March 12, 2020 In "News" Gov. Ben Ayade of Cross River has granted a state pardon to 34 inmates serving various jail terms in Calabar Prison to mark the 50th Anniversary of the state. May 27, 2017 In "News"