As part of activities commemorating 20th anniversary on the throne, the Oloja of Epe Kingdom, Oba Kamorudeen Animashaun, has honoured top executives of Rendeavour, developers of Alaro City in the Lekki Free Trade Zone, with chieftaincy titles as a reward for their efforts in job creation and community development in the area. Subsequently, Frank Mosier, Chairman of Rendeavour, was honoured with the chieftaincy title of “Amuludun of Epe Kingdom” (one that helps to create harmony and joy in the land); while Stephen Jennings, Founder and CEO of Rendeavour, was honoured with “Bobatuluse of Epe Kingdom” (one who works with the king to improve the lot of the community) by the monarch. Mr. Mosier is a member of the United States President’s Advisory Council on Doing Business in Africa (PAC-DBIA). The PAC provides analyses and recommendations to the U.S. government on strengthening commercial engagement between the United States and Africa. Mr. Jennings on the other hand, is a serial investor in Nigeria. He launched Renaissance Capital, currently a leading investment bank in the country in 2006, and launched RenMoney, a leading consumer finance bank, in 2012. Both men are the leading investors in Rendeavour. Vanguard NIGERIA's first female Vice Chancellor and Professor of Mathematics, Grace Alele-Williams along with four others were Friday honoured by the 20th Olu of Warri, His Majesty, Ogiame Ikenwole's first conferment of chieftaincy titles since his enthronement last year. September 30, 2016 In "News" NIGERIA’s first female Vice Chancellor and Professor of Mathematics, Grace Alele-Williams along with four others were yesterday honoured by the Olu of Warri, His Majesty, Ogiame Ikenwole in his first conferment of chieftaincy titles. October 1, 2016 In "News" The Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara; Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State and his Osun and Ogun State counterparts, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola; Ibikunle Amosun; Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi and Alake of Egba, Oba Aremu Gbadebo are among the dignitaries expected at the… November 25, 2017 In "News"