Nnewi—The Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Diocese on the Niger has described the ongoing second Niger bridge project as historic, monumental,  and a potential high grade mark for All Progressives Congress, APC-led Federal Government if successfully executed. The Bishop, Diocese on the Niger, Rt. Rev. Owen Nwokolo, disclosed this while addressing newsmen in Onitsha, Anambra State. Bishop Nwokolo, who commended the Federal Government for the commencement of work on the second Niger bridge, also expressed satisfaction with work so far done on the project. He said: “Second Niger bridge project is historic and monumental. It is a potential high grade mark for the government, if successfully executed. “The extent of work so far done on both ends of the bridge, the Onitsha and Asaba ends of the bridge is satisfactory, and it shows the seriousness  of the government over the project against decades of lip service paid to it. “This has changed the narrative about the bridge, which has long been a protracted subject for electioneering campaign, particularly in the South-East. It’s eventual actualisation now by the Federal Government, is commendable.” Nwokolo, who emphasized the strategic position of the bridge, said: “It’s numerous economic and social benefits are neither limited to Anambra State nor to  the South East, but to the entire nation. “The bridge, strategically and perfectly links the East, West, North and South of the country for the good of the nation.The Federal Government should  therefore, not allow petty political interests to frustrate the time frame for the completion of the project.” Vanguard The Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Diocese on the Niger, yesterday called on political leaders not see themselves as owners of the earth but as messengers of Gods priperty and therefore, work for Gods people instead of themselves, as 2019 ekection approaches. October 16, 2018 In "News" President Goodluck Jonathan has reaffirmed his preparedness to renovate the dilapidated school structures at Akpakogwe Central School, Ogidi, Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State, which the literary icon, Prof. Chinua Achebe, attended during his early days. June 17, 2014 In "News" THE Anglican Bishop on the Niger, Rt. Rev. Owen Nwokolo has decried what he termed ‘politics of retrogression’ being played over the construction of the second bridge across the River Niger, calling on the Federal Government to expedite action on the much desired project without any further delay. March 1, 2018 In "News"