The Iranian government’s strategy to counter the spread of the coronavirus will be led by the president, Hassan Rouhani, according to the news agency ISNA. The suggestion came from Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the Wednesday report said. Up until now, the Health Ministry has taken the lead in the fight against the virus. Iran has been one of the countries most seriously affected by the viral outbreak, with nearly 300 deaths and more than 8,000 infected. A large number of cases discovered in other countries in the region have been linked to Iran. The president’s office announced several new measures: greater involvement of the army in helping contain the virus; mobile hospitals in certain provinces; and the use of hotels and sporting venues as places to treat those infected with coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In another news, a female patient in Indonesia who was infected with the new coronavirus has died, becoming the first known fatal case in the country. The Belgian Health Ministry disclosed this on Wednesday. The ministry reported on Wednesday that it was the first coronavirus death in the country, Belga news agency said citing a statement. The 53-year-old foreigner had underlying conditions including diabetes and hypertension, ministry spokesman Achmad Yurianto said. [dpa/NAN and AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. President Hassan Rouhani accused the United States on Wednesday of trying to spread "fear" in Iran over a deadly outbreak of the novel coronavirus. Coronavirus has claimed the lives of 19 people among 139 infections in Iran, including the deputy health minister -- making it the deadliest outbreak outside China. "We… February 26, 2020 In "Foreign" Friday prayers in Iran have been cancelled across all provincial capitals amid the country’s growing coronavirus outbreak, state television said. The report Wednesday comes as Tehran and other areas cancelled Friday prayers last week over the outbreak. Iran earlier announced that the new coronavirus has killed 92 people amid 2,922… March 6, 2020 In "News" Iranian authorities on Wednesday announced domestic travel restrictions for people with confirmed or suspected cases of the novel coronavirus, which has claimed 19 lives in the country -- the highest tally outside China where the disease originated. The authorities also slapped curbs on visits to major Muslim pilgrimage sites. "Instead… February 27, 2020 In "Foreign"