German industrial conglomerate Siemens announced Thursday that CEO Joe Kaeser will be replaced by current deputy Roland Busch by February 2021. “Siemens is setting the course for establishing the next generation of management,” the company said in a statement, announcing that 61-year-old Kaeser would not be pursuing a contract extension. Busch, 55, would take the reins as president and CEO “at the latest” at the next Annual Shareholder’s meeting, scheduled for February next year, Siemens said. Busch has been a Siemens director since 2011, and has held the position of Deputy CEO since October last year. Kaeser, meanwhile, will now be appointed Chairman of the Supervisory Board at the Siemens Energy branch of the company. Siemens, which is currently going through a period of upheaval, had previously said they would not name a new CEO until the summer. Like other German industrial giants, the group has been struggling for several months against a slowing global economy, and now faces the dramatic challenge of the current coronavirus crisis. In January, the company drew the wrath of environmentalists when it decided to continue its involvement in a controversial coal-mining project in Australia, even as the country was being battered by unprecedented wildfires. AFP VANGUARD Germany's Siemens and France's Alstom have made new concessions in an effort to convince the European Commission to approve their tie-up that would create a rail manufacturing giant, Alstom said Monday. January 28, 2019 In "Business" Siemens pushed back a planned multi-billion euro listing of light bulb unit Osram to a later date, becoming the latest victim of market volatility which has dented the hopes of a September revival in Europe’s lackluster new listings market. September 16, 2011 In "Business" The Federal Government and Siemens Limited, Nigeria, recently sealed an agreement to reduce power loses in the nation. In this interview with Udeme Akpan, the Managing Director/CEO, Siemens Limited, Ms Onyeche Tifase, provides an insight into the deal, including how the company will go about achieving its target. August 20, 2019 In "Energy"