The chief executive of Groupe ADP, the company which runs Paris’ two main international airports, Charles de Gaulle and Orly, has tested positive for the coronavirus, the group said Monday. Augustin de Romanet tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, the company said, adding that his “state of health is not a cause for concern and does not prevent him from carrying out his functions.” His contacts were being investigated while the CEO would stay at home for the next two weeks in self-isolation. The two Paris airports are among the busiest air hubs in the world, with over 100 million people passing through every year. With more than 1,100 recorded cases and 19 deaths so far, France is the second worst affected European country after its neighbour Italy, which has imposed a sweeping lockdown on the most hard-hit northern regions. In another news, the Nigerian federal government, Monday, confirmed another case of Coronavirus in Nigeria, bringing the number of people living positive to the disease to two. This was as the government said 11 persons that had contacts with index case were in untraceable locations across the country. Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, in a text he read at a news conference in Benin, Edo State, said the second case was confirmed by scientists yesterday, Sunday. [Our Reporter and Agency] Vanguard News Nigeria. The health condition of the index case for COVID-19 in Nigeria is not a cause for concern as the 44-year-old Italian is said to be 70 per cent stable. March 3, 2020 In "News" A city in Indonesia’s North Sulawesi province known for exotic animals has stopped sales over Coronavirus (COVID-19) fears, a health official said on Friday. Tomohon is known for its market that sells meat and live animals including rat, snake, bat and monkey for consumption. “We have notified traders to temporarily stop the sale of… February 14, 2020 In "Foreign" In a near replay of the July 20, 2014 Ebola Virus Disease episode when Liberian Patrick Sawyer imported the Ebola virus into the country undetected through the Muritala Mohammed International Airport, MMIA, an Italian national has imported the COVID-19 virus into the country through the same airport on February 25th… February 29, 2020 In "Health"