The Federal High Court in Kano on Friday restrained the Kano state Public Complaint and Anti-corruption Commission from investigating Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II over alleged N2.2 billion land scam. The commission on Thursday granted extension for the appearance of Emir on Monday, March 9. The Monarch on Friday, filed an ex parte motion before the court against Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission (1st respondent), Muhyi Magaji Rimingado, Attorney General, Kano State and the Governor as 2nd, 3rd and 4th respondents respectively. Sanusi through his counsel, led by Nureini Jimoh, prayed the court to restrain the 1st and 2nd respondents (Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission and its Chairman, Muhuyi  Rimingado respectively) from investigating the affairs (of the applicant) pending the hearing of the originating motion. Justice Lewis Allagoa granted the prayer of the monarch and ordered that the status quo be maintained in the interim pending the hearing and determination of the originating motions. “Also that the respondents are to be served with the order of the court made in this suit and other processes through the 1st respondent (Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission).” He, therefore, adjourned the matter until March 18, for hearing. NAN reports that the anti-graft agency had earlier invited the Emir to appear before it on Thursday, March 5, to defend himself on the fresh allegation. But the Emir wrote to the Commission through his lawyers,  Dikko  and Mahmoud requested for an extension time for him to appear on March 25, which the commission rejected and gave him Monday, March 9, by 11 a.m. within which to appear. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. The Federal High Court in Kano, on Friday, restrained the Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-corruption Commission from investigating Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II over alleged N2.2 billion land scam. March 6, 2020 In "News" A Federal High Court sitting in Kano on Tuesday granted an order restraining Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje and the State Public Complaints and Anti Corruption Commission from acting on the preliminary report on alleged misappropriation of N3.4 billion by the Kano Emirate Council. June 18, 2019 In "News" The Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-corruption Commission says it is exploring suitable options at its disposal following the ruling delivered by a Kano Federal High Court. February 24, 2020 In "News"