Six-time Super Bowl champion quarterback Tom Brady announced Friday he has signed an NFL contract with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Three-time NFL Most Valuable Player Brady, who turns 43 in August, announced Tuesday he was leaving the New England Patriots after 20 seasons and a record six crowns under coach Bill Belichick. “Excited, humble and hungry,” Brady said in an Instagram posting of a photo of him signing the document. “If there is one thing I have learned about football, it’s that nobody cares what you did last year or the year before that. You earn the trust and respect of those around through your commitment every single day. “I’m starting a new football journey and I’m thankful for the Buccaneers for giving me an opportunity to do what I love to do. I look forward to meeting all my new teammates and coaches and proving to them that they can believe and trust in me.” The Bucs said only that Brady signed a “multi-year” contract while ESPN and the NFL Network reported it was a two-year guaranteed deal for $50 million (46.7 euros) with up to $4.5 million in incentives each season. ESPN also reported the contract has a no-trade clause and a ban on Brady being named a franchise player, a move that hints Brady is looking at the possibility of playing beyond the 2021 season. “I have always believed that well done is better than well said, so I’m not gonna say much more,” Brady wrote. “I’m just gonna get to work.” Brady joins a Buccaneers club owned by Manchester United owner Malcolm Glazer, a team that has not reached the NFL playoffs since 2007. Welcome to Tampa Bay, @TomBrady.  pic.twitter.com/VJooGYwwiA — Tampa Bay Buccaneers (@Buccaneers) March 20, 2020  The 12-year post-season drought is the NFL’s second-longest active futility run behind only Cleveland. But if Brady can make magic happen, the 2021 Super Bowl is set to be played on the Bucs’ home turf at Raymond James Stadium. – ‘Proven champion’ –
That’s clearly the Buccaneers’ goal, their website announcement of Brady’s arrival declaring they are “all in” and Brady as the “greatest of all time.” Buccaneers general manager Jason Licht was a member of the Patriots’ scouting staff when Brady was drafted in 2000. “Tom is a proven champion who has achieved greatness on the field because he demands the best out of himself and his teammates,” Licht said. “I’ve known Tom since we drafted him in New England 20 years ago and through this process it became very clear that his desire to be a champion burns as strong today as it ever has. He possesses the type of rare natural leadership qualities that will immediately impact our entire organization.” The Bucs, who won their only Super Bowl title in 2003, are coached by Bruce Arians, who as an assistant coach guided such star signal callers as Peyton Manning with Indianapolis and Ben Roethlisberger in Pittsburgh. “Tom is the most successful quarterback in the history of our league, but what makes him so special is his ability to make those around him better,” Arians said. “I’ve had the privilege to work with some of the best passers in our game, and the characteristics they all possessed were the ability to lead and get the best out of their teammates. Tom is no different. “He’s a proven winner who will provide the leadership, accountability and work ethic necessary to lead us to our goal of winning another championship.” The Buccaneers’ offense ranked third in both total offense and scoring in 2019 behind Jameis Winston, who threw 33 touchdowns and an NFL-high 30 interceptions. Brady had 24 touchdown throws with only eight interceptions, six shy of his career most in any season. Tampa Bay has two 1,000-yard receivers in Mike Evans and Chris Godwin, a rising star at running back in Ronald Jones, strong tight ends in O.J. Howard and Cameron Brate and likely their pick of free agents anxious to play alongside Brady. Brady has an NFL-record 219 career wins against 64 defeats as a starter plus a 30-11 mark in the playoffs. Brady has completed 6,377 of 9,988 career passes for 74,571 yards and 541 touchdowns and run for 1,037 yards and another 22 touchdowns. VANGUARD Tom Brady announced his departure from the New England Patriots on Tuesday, ending a glittering 20-year run with the franchise which saw him become the most successful quarterback in NFL history. Brady, 42, confirmed his departure in a series of posts on social media but did not divulge where he… March 17, 2020 In "Sports" England striker Harry Kane is keen to pursue a kicking career in the NFL once his football days are behind him. March 28, 2019 In "Sports" Soccer megastar Lionel Messi is expected to sign his new contract worth $33.6m deal with Barcelona FC, which will see Messi earn about $646,000 a week. July 5, 2017 In "Sports"