ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, on Tuesday expressed worry over Supreme Court’s decision to reserve its judgment on the Zamfara state governorship election matter in which the All Progressives Congress, APC, is asking the apex court to review its judgment. Addressing a press conference at the party’s national secretariat, Abuja, spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan described the development as a ploy by the APC “to once again manipulate the judicial process and secure judgment through the back door.” He added: “Nigerians will recall that the Supreme Court had consistently decided on the finality of judgments reached at the court. As such, all issues bothering on review were never reserved for judgment because of its belief in the infallibility of its own judgment. “Our party is concerned that the surprising decision to reserve this judgment is not in tandem with the established practice of the highest court, which was reaffirmed in its judgments on the Bayelsa and Imo state governorship elections, where it dismissed the applications for review on the ground that it lacked jurisdiction to review its own judgment. “The PDP, therefore, urges the Supreme Court not to allow itself to be manipulated by the APC or its agents into a judicial summersault that is capable of causing serious constitutional and political crisis in our country.” The APC is seeking a review of the judgment of the Supreme Court nullifying its participation in the 2019 governorship election. The apex court reserved judgment on the matter on Tuesday. Vanguard Nigeria News The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed concerns over the Supreme Court’s decision to reserve its judgment on the Zamfara governorship election matter in which the All Progressives Congress (APC) was asking the Apex Court to review its judgment. March 17, 2020 In "News" ABUJA- The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Monday, said the "plot" by the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, to destabilize the country has left it with no choice but to approach the Supreme Court for a review of the outcome of the 2019 Presidential election. February 24, 2020 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has criticized the Muhammadu Buhari-led Presidency for allowing the Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Prof Itse Sagay to allegedly cast aspersions on the integrity of the Justices of the Supreme Court over its judgment on Rivers and Zamfara states' governorship elections. June 2, 2019 In "News"