Several years after he took a break from Nollywood to concentrate on his other business empire,  front-line filmmaker, Ojiofor Ezeanyanche, has staged a comeback to the movie industry. OJ, as he’s fondly called by his colleagues is returning to the industry with his faith based-comeback movie titled, “ Our Jesus Story.” The veteran filmmaker, who’s know for producing early movies such as “Deadly Passion”, “Igodo”, “Blood Money”, “Ashes to Ashes” , “Only Love”, “Egg of Life”, “My Love”, “Two Rats” among others said he had the vision to make the movie about 10 years ago. According to him,  while a script was written, he couldn’t make the movie then. This was around the time he took a break from the industry. OJ said his decision to return to the industry was prompted by the constant urge to make this particularly movie “Our Jesus Story” despite abandoning it for so long. “ I’ve had  this story in my mind for over a decade ago, even got it scripted at a point but I was waiting for the right time so I can devout all attention necessary to bring it to life because it’s more like a command from God.” This is not just an ordinary movie, I’m positive your life does not remain the same. I believe people will receive miracles and truly experience the power of Jesus and his love for us. While he away doing other things, OJ said there was always this ‘Divine calling’  for him to make this film. “This became a burden that I could no longer ignore,” he added. “Our Jesus Story’, according to OJ,   is an African expression of the story of our Lord Jesus Christ. Making this film is beyond entertainment for OJ. “It is Divine Fulfillment of a burden that has been in his Heart all these years. This is a very bold step on its own, considering the fact that the story is not fiction_a story everyone who has read the Bible or not, is familiar with. The creativity in weaving an African story out of this,  tells you more about the man called OJ and OJ Production,” he said. OJ was a multi-millionaire who made all his money from film making during the early days of Nollywood. He has to his credits, films like “Ashes to Ashes”, “Only Love”, “Egg of Life”, “My Love”, “Two Rats” and many more Hit movies which his Company became known for. OJ is a passionate and consummate producer, whose love for quality in storytelling and production, is second to none. VANGUARD Popular comic-actor, Charles Inojie is still wondering how he was tricked into featuring in that lewd film titled ‘Calabar Girl’ directed by Jerry Don Nwachukwu. The film was produced by Divine Ezeibekwe and banned immediately after it was released sometime in May, this year by the National Film and Video… September 7, 2013 In "Showtime People" In the fight against rape that has eaten into the fabric of our society, actor, model and filmmaker, Sunny Okonkwo, a versatile artist in the Nigerian entertainment industry, is set to reveal the causes and effects of rape with the release of his upcoming movie titled ‘Masked’, in September 2019. July 14, 2019 In "The Arts" After starring in that best selling premier movie, "Living in Bondage" , in 1992, Nnenna Nwabueze-Okonta who acted Merit in the movie disappeared into thin air. She happened to be one of the matriarchs of contemporary video culture in Nigeria. Showtime Celebrity caught up with her, last week in Asaba,… March 20, 2015 In "Showtime People"