Chinese authorities have ordered a foreign national to be deported after the “foreigner” assaulted health officers who asked him to wear face mask, according to an official statement. The foreign national was captured in a video yelling ‘motherf*****’ at the officials before throwing his phone at them. The foreign resident is facing deportation after being arrested by local police for disrupting public services. “We received a report that a foreigner in our jurisdiction did not wear a mask while entering the residential complex he lived in and disobeyed the property management staff, “His behaviours disrupted the public order and we ordered him to leave the country within a time limit,” Chinese local police stated in their statement. The statement did not mention the man’s nationality, but officers confirmed to MailOnline that he comes from Morocco. A witness told the local press that the foreign national appeared to be intoxicated. “I was at the convenience shop nearby when I heard someone smashing things and shouting,’ the witness told Pear Video. ‘He smelled of alcohol.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Thailand’s Health Minister said foreigners who refused to wear face masks to prevent the spread of the coronavirus should be “kicked out of the country.” “These foreign tourists, this is something to tell the embassies as well as the Thai people they’re refusing to wear face masks,” Anutin Charnvirakul told… February 8, 2020 In "Foreign" The Consul General, Consulate General of The Peoples’ Republic of China in Nigeria, Mr. Chu Moaming, says the Chinese government is strongly committed to eradicating COVID -19. March 29, 2020 In "News" Experts will meet again later to decide whether to declare an international public health emergency over the coronavirus crisis that has claimed 17 lives in China. The World Health Organisation (WHO) was expected to make the decision on Wednesday, but said they needed more information before deciding what to do,… January 23, 2020 In "Foreign"