CENTRAL Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said that the N100 billion credit support to the health sector created as part of measures to address the impact of the Coronavirus, COVID-19, pandemic on the Nigerian economy, will operate till 2030. The apex bank disclosed this in the guidelines for the scheme released last week, stating that: “The exit date of this intervention is December 31, 2030.” The guidelines also revealed that borrowers under the scheme will enjoy five percent interest rate till February 28, 2021, after which the interest rate will be reversed to nine percent. Explaining the objectives of the fund, the CBN stated that “the broad objectives of the scheme include: reduction of health tourism to conserve foreign exchange; providing long-term, low cost finance for healthcare infrastructure development that would lead to the evolvement of world-class healthcare facilities in the country; improving access to affordable credit by indigenous pharmaceutical companies to expand their operations and comply with the World Health Organization’s Good Manufacturing Practices (WHO GMP); and supporting the provision of shared services through one-stop healthcare solution to enhance competition and reduce the cost of healthcare delivery in the country.” Vanguard The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has disclosed that five months after unveiling the Small and Medium Enterprises Credit Guarantee Scheme (SMECGS), for which N200 billion was set aside to promote easy access to credit by SMEs in Nigeria, it is yet to receive any application from any bank for… September 26, 2010 In "Finance" Central Bank of Nigeria has in the last seven years injected about N2 trillion into the economy in its various intervention schemes. The interventions funded about 1,686 projects which have created a total of 6.2 million jobs in agriculture, industry, aviation among others. An industry report on CBN interventions sighted… September 12, 2016 In "Business" The suspension of the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mallam Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, by President Goodluck Jonathan, has generated divergent views. While many economics experts said the President acted hastily by not allowing Sanusi to finish his tenure by June, 2014, others said Jonathan’s decision is in the… February 23, 2014 In "News"