Caster Semenya has been lamenting her lost appeal in Switzerland’s Federal Supreme Court ruling against the restriction of testosterone levels in female runners. Semenya is not allowed to compete in events between 400m and a mile without taking testosterone-reducing drugs, following a 2019 rule change by the governing body World Athletics. “I am very disappointed,” the 29-year-old South African said. “I refuse to let World Athletics drug me or stop me from being who I am.” Athletics’ governing body brought in a rule that athletes with differences of sexual development (DSD) must either take the medication in order to compete in track events from 400m to the mile, or change to another distance. Athletes with DSD have higher levels of natural testosterone, which World Athletics believes gives them a competitive advantage. “Excluding female athletes or endangering our health solely because of our natural abilities puts World Athletics on the wrong side of history,” Semenya added. “I will continue to fight for the human rights of female athletes, both on the track and off the track until we can all run free the way we were born. “I know what is right and will do all I can to protect basic human rights, for young girls everywhere.” Vanguard The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) on Wednesday dismissed an appeal by Olympics 800 metres champion Caster Semenya against the introduction of regulations to restrict testosterone levels in female athletes. May 1, 2019 In "News" South African middle-distance athlete Caster Semenya is aiming to run in the 200 metres at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. By doing so, she will be competing over a distance that will allow her to avoid World Athletics’ regulations limiting her testosterone levels. Semenya is a double Olympic gold medallist in… March 14, 2020 In "Sports" A Swiss court ruling that blocks South African Caster Semenya from defending her world 800m title in Doha in September creates much-needed "parity and clarity" in athletics, the sport's governing body said Wednesday. July 31, 2019 In "News"