A Plateau State High Court has dismissed the application of Dr. Obadiah Mailafia who sought to stop the Nigeria Police Force through the Force Criminal Investigations Department from investigating him in a matter which is also being investigated by the Department of State Security, DSS. Ruling on the application on Tuesday, Justice Arum Ashom of High Court 5, Jos dismissed the application for lacking in merit. The Police said they are “investigating a case in which your name featured prominently,” but upon receiving a letter of invitation, Mailafia’s legal team led by Pius Akubo SAN approached the court seeking a judicial pronouncement on the letter as they described the invitation as an intimidation, harassment, persecution and witch hunt. It would be recalled that Dr. Mailafia in a radio interview in Lagos on 9th August, 2020, made some allegations which bordered on internal security, alleging that a sitting Governor in one is of the States in the north was a commander of Boko Haram. Justice Ashom noted that the Police also have the right to investigate Mailafia even though the DSS is doing same. Details later… Vanguard By Marie-Therese Nanlong ...Obtains Court order challenging invitation The Legal Defense team of Dr. Obadiah Mailafia has explained why the former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Dr. Mailafia would not honour the fresh invitation extended to him by the Nigeria Police Force through the office of… August 24, 2020 In "News" Jos—Former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Dr. Obadiah Mailafia, has tendered his resignation to the authorities of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, NIPSS, Kuru, near Jos. August 25, 2020 In "News" By Marie-Therese Nanlong - Jos Again, the Department of State Service, DSS has for the third time in less than two months invited Dr Obadiah Mailafia to appear before its officials on Monday, the 14th of September, 2020. The recent invitation came even as Dr Mailafia is asking the court… September 11, 2020 In "News"