Continuous rainfall yesterday has flooded Anegbette, Udaba, Ekperi areas of Etsako Central Area of Edo state rendering many of the residents homeless and waters running into homes. A community leader in the area, Suleiman Gbagudu lamented the situation. He said “More than half of the community has been taken over by flood including farmland. In the past, the government used to bring palliatives but this time, we haven’t heard from them at all. I am just watching from my upstairs just watching helplessly as the waters keep rising. We don’t know how long the rain will continue and if it continues non stop then we are in danger. “We are calling on the state government to act fast because people’s lives are in danger. Farmlands are being washed away with their crops so we want urgent intervention from the state government” It would be recalled that the federal government through the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA) warned that Kebbi, Niger, Kwara, Nasarawa, Kogi, Anambra, Delta, Edo, Rivers and Bayelsa states which are contiguous to River Niger would experience severe flooding in September. Efforts to reach the Commissioner for Environment and Sustainability, Alex Oleije yesterday were not successful as his phone was switched off. But last week Oleije said the State is doing everything humanly possible to mitigate against flooding. He said though the issue of flooding this season is a global one, the Government of Edo was not waiting until it happens before taking action. The Commissioner said aside embarking on “massive” desilting of drains across the State, the government has also carried out sensitisation programme to forestall flooding. According to him, “With several warnings that have been given as its concerns this year’s rains and associated consequences, Edo State Government has taken proactive measures to lessen the burden. “We have also carried out a sensitisation programme, especially to the riverine areas, on the need to ensure proper disposal of wastes and for those in the low land to move to upland for safety. Vanguard OLEH—ABOUT 107 flood victims were weekend, evacuated from Aballa-Oshimili, Utchi-Okumedo and Utchi-Umuochi communities, Ndokwa-East Local Government Area, Delta State. This came as over 35 houses were submerged and farmlands overtaken by the ravaging flood at Abuator in the council area. Vanguard gathered that the flood victims were evacuated in boats… October 12, 2015 In "News" ASABA-VICE-President Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday, lamented that twelve  states were under water, saying, the  Federal Government would work with the  affected states and relevant stakeholders to ensure that victims whose farmlands and other properties were submerged are paid adequate compensation to cushion the effects of the devastation. September 21, 2018 In "News" No fewer than three hundred persons in Etsako Central, Etsako East and Esan South East Local Government Councils of Edo State are presently counting their losses since the River Niger overflowed its banks. In the first instance, they were rendered homeless, while property worth over N1 billion were destroyed by… September 27, 2012 In "Metro"