Former Vice President Abubakar Atiku has again punctured the recent deregulation in petroleum that has led to an increase in fuel price, asking “If we truly deregulated, shouldn’t fuel price drop?” Atiku, in rhetorics on his verified Twitter handle Tuesday morning, tweeted that as a businessman, he is more concern with the economic perspective of things. He pointed out that in the US and Europe, fuel prices are far lower than they were in 2019. Then he asked in a ponderously, “If we truly deregulated, shouldn’t fuel price have dropped?” I am a businessman. I look at things from an economic perspective. Questions beg answers. The price of crude is down from where it was in 2019. In the US and Europe, fuel prices are far lower than they were in 2019. If we truly deregulated, shouldn’t fuel price have dropped? — Atiku Abubakar (@atiku) September 8, 2020  Atiku had, four days ago, rejected the increase in electricity tariff describing the move as “ill-timed and ill-advised.” He also described the move as an “impetuous disregard for the challenges. “I reject the increased electricity tariffs. Coming out of the lockdown, Nigerians need a stimulus, not an impetuous disregard for the challenges they face. “Many Nigerians have not earned an income for months, due to no fault of theirs. This increase is ill-timed and ill-advised,” he said. Nigerians have however been reacting to the development on the increment in petrol and electricity tariffs, stating their displeasure considering the economic status of the average Nigerian. See reactions here Vanguard THE federal government had announced a new fuel pricing regime which had sent the pump price to an all time high of N145 per litre, and in some places far above that. This development was a culmination of the various economic crises that had attended the present government since inception. May 13, 2016 In "News" The federal government had announced a new fuel pricing regime which had sent the pump price to an all time high of N145 per litre, and in some place far above that. This development was a culmination of the various economic crises that had attended the present government since inception. May 14, 2016 In "Issues" Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has described the stoppage of subsidy and price-fixing for petrol as a right move by the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration led by President Muhammadu Buhari. Abubakar is also the leading opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections. In his… June 6, 2020 In "News"