TWO policemen, Tuesday, died in an accident involving the campaign convoy of former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, while he was on his way to Usen in Ovia SouthWest local government area. The accident was said to have happened at about 1pm around the by-pass in Oluku Ovia North-East local government area. The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has condoled with Oshiomhole and the candidate of the APC, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, over the road accident. A statement by the Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie quoted the governor as commiserating with the families of the victims of the crash and prayed that God grants them the fortitude to bear the loss of their loved ones. “I received the news of the accident with shock and commiserate with the former governor of Edo State, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the candidate of the APC in the forthcoming governorship election, Osagie Ize-Iyamu over the very unfortunate incident involving their security aides and top chieftains of the party in the campaign team. “While we pray for strength for the families of the deceased persons, we also pray for the quick recovery of those who were injured and are receiving treatment,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria Two policemen on Tuesday, died in an accident involving the campaign convoy of former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole while he was on his way to Usen in Ovia South-West local government area. The incident was said to have happened around 1 pm. The… September 1, 2020 In "News" …Obaseki commiserates with Oshiomhole, Ize-Iyamu By Ozioruva Aliu TWO policemen, yesterday, died in an accident involving the campaign convoy of former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, while he was on his way to Usen in Ovia SouthWest local government area. The accident was said… September 2, 2020 In "News" By Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City Two policemen on Tuesday, died in an accident involving the campaign convoy of former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole while he was on his way to Usen in Ovia South-West local government area. The incident was said… September 1, 2020 In "Edo Decides"