Kaduna state governor, Nasir El-Rufai, has come out to defend the office of governors, saying that their job is one of the most difficult jobs in the world. Disclosing this when he appeared on Channels Television programme, Sunrise, the outspoken governor averred that governors are not corrupt as people insinuate. His words: “We came into office at a very bad time in terms of economic viability. We came in when oil prices were crashing into the twenties and we had inherited bureaucracies that were designed and structured around $100 per barrel oil. We had inherited wages at that level as well. And all of a sudden, there was this collapse and Nigeria went into a recession. “Governors are the most suspected elected officials. Everyone thinks governors are just thieves and we are wasting state resources, we are not doing anything. Governors are assumed to be taking security votes. When people hear security votes, they think it is a slush fund for governors. So we have a very negative image out there. “Meanwhile, we have one of the most difficult jobs in the world. And we are subnational; our capacity to borrow is limited. The federal government can print money. We cannot. “Other than Lagos, very few state governments have room to do what they can do because apart from Lagos virtually every state in Nigeria relies on Federation Account transfers. And when they go down, you are in trouble.” Vanguard In the face of sustained opposition to the government’s decision to weed out unqualified teachers from the system, El-Rufai stood to be counted. We subjected the school teachers to a test and we realized that over 75percent of them were not qualified to teach. November 25, 2018 In "Politics" The governor of Kadu-na state, Mallam Nasir El Rufai has said that his decision to support the re- election of President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term was not because he wanted to feather his political nest but because Buhari remained the best candidate at the moment. February 17, 2018 In "News" Worried by the security challenge in the state, Governor Nasir El Rufai has promised that District and Village Heads in the state will be given security votes so that they can gather intelligence reports that will help in stemming crime and insecurity. February 2, 2019 In "News"