A woman suspected of sending an envelope containing the poison ricin, which was addressed to White House, has been arrested at the New York-Canada border, three law enforcement officials told The Associated Press on Sunday. The letter had been intercepted earlier this week before it reached the White House. The woman was taken into custody by U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers at the Peace Bridge border crossing near Buffalo and is expected to face federal charges, the officials said. Her name was not immediately released. The letter addressed to the White House appeared to have originated in Canada, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police have said. It was intercepted at a government facility that screens mail addressed to the White House and President Donald Trump and a preliminary investigation indicated it tested positive for ricin, according to the officials. The officials were not authorised to discuss the ongoing investigation publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. There have been several prior instances in which U.S. officials have been targeted with ricin sent through the mail. A Navy veteran was arrested in 2018 and confessed to sending envelopes to Trump and members of his administration that contained the substance from which ricin is derived. The letters were intercepted, and no one was hurt. In 2014, a Mississippi man was sentenced to 25 years in prison after sending letters dusted with ricin to President Barack Obama and other officials. [Associated Press] Vanguard News Nigeria. US Federal officials intercepted an envelope addressed to the White House that contained the poison ricin, a law enforcement official told The Associated Press on Saturday. The letter was intercepted at a government facility that screens mail addressed to the White House and President Donald Trump, the official said. A… September 20, 2020 In "Foreign" A letter addressed to US President Barack Obama tested positive for ricin in a drama over poisoned mail spreading alarm in Washington, which was already on edge Wednesday after the Boston bombings. April 17, 2013 In "News" Pipe bombs were sent to Barack Obama, prominent Democrats and CNN -- all hate figures for backers of President Donald Trump -- in a coordinated plot to "terrorize" ahead of polarizing US elections, officials said Wednesday. October 24, 2018 In "News"