France is ready to back the civil transition of power in Mali on conditions set by the Western African ECOWAS regional bloc and takes note of the first appointments to the Malian transition government, the French Foreign Ministry said. The military junta responsible for the coup in Mali, on Monday appointed former Defence Minister Ba N’Daou as the transition president, who is due to serve on his post for 18 months before a new government is established. “France is ready to accompany and support the civil transition in Mali that will take place under the conditions set by ECOWAS,” the statement said. Paris also called the appointments to the transition government an “encouraging first step” in the process of curbing the political crisis in Mali, which should translate into democratic elections of legitimate authorities. The ministry added that further appointments to the transition government were expected under the observation of African and European experts. The military coup in Mali began on Aug. 18 not far from the capital of Bamako and resulted in the resignation of then-President Ibrahim Keita and his government. The coup leaders established the CNSP (National Committee for the Salvation of the People) governing body until the transition government takes power. On Sept. 7, the 15-nation ECOWAS bloc urged the junta to appoint members of government for a transitional period until Sept. 23, saying it would otherwise impose a full embargo on the country. Vanguard News Mali's military junta leader, Colonel Assimi Goita, on Tuesday, demanded an end to potentially crippling economic sanctions imposed after last month's coup in the poor Sahel state. Addressing reporters during a ceremony marking 60 years of Malian independence, Goita said the recent nomination of a civilian as interim president meant that… September 23, 2020 In "Foreign" The opposition coalition which led mass protests in Mali ahead of last month's coup has rejected a transition charter to establish an 18-month interim government until an election could take place. It followed three days of talks with opposition and civil society groups. The M5-RFP group said the document was… September 14, 2020 In "News" Mali must return to civilian rule immediately and hold elections within 12 months, West African countries demanded Friday in a virtual meeting attended by President Muhammadu Buhari, as they considered sanctions over a military coup that toppled the country's president. The demands were spelt out after the new junta released… August 29, 2020 In "News"