The Osun State Government has directed all head of public schools in the state to immediately revert to their old names. A circular letter with reference numberS/ADM/38/131, titled, “Reverting Re-classification Nomenclature of Schools to Old Status”,  addressed to the Executive Secretary of the State Universal Basic Education Board, Coordinating Director, TEPO, Tutors General (Central, East and West Senatorial Districts), stated that the directive was a sequel to Governor Adegboyega Oyetola’s approval. The circular was also directed to the Executive Secretary (QAMEA), Executive Secretary (OSBTVE), All Zonal Inspectors of Education, Principals of Unity Schools & Schools of Science, All Inspectors of Education, Principals of all Government Public Schools. All Head Teachers of Government Elementary Schools. It reads in parts, “Please recall that at the policy review roundtable summit on some extant policies in Education Sector held between 20 and 21” February 2020, His Excellency, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola approved that Schools should revert to their pre-reclassification names and nomenclatures. “Sequel to the above, all Schools are hereby directed to revert to their old names with immediate effect as approved by the Osun State Government. “Kindly give this Circular Letter the widest publicity it deserves.” It would be recalled that ex-Governor Rauf Aregbesola had in 2013 embarked on the controversial re-classification of public schools in the state despite public outcry against it. Vanguard THE Osun state government has directed principals and heads of public elementary schools to revert to the old names used before the reclassification under immediate past governor, Engr Rauf Aregbesola, in 2013. Taiwo Adeagbo, coordinating director, ministry of education, according to The Cable gave the directive in a circular addressed… September 3, 2020 In "News" By Shina Abubakar Osogbo Osun state government on Monday adopted the report of the Expert committee on education reversing the extant education policies introduced by the State Governor, Rauf Aregbesola. Briefing journalists after the State Executive Council meeting at the Exco chamber at the Governor's office in Osogbo, the Commissioner… March 2, 2020 In "Education" THE upgraded four colleges of education to universities by former president, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, has produced a scenario of one institution of higher learning having two chief executives at the helm of affairs. You will recall that on May 20, 2015, Jonathan had in the twilight of his tenure, upgraded… September 3, 2015 In "Education"