Global next-generation cybersecurity company, Sophos, has announced top-performing channel partners in the Middle East and Africa, MEA. The annual awards recognize partners for their significant sales achievements and initiatives that grow own businesses and that of Sophos. It is also a commitment by the company to adding value to customers. Sophos MEA Vice President, Harish Chib, said: “As cyber threats increase in volume and sophistication, it’s critical that frontline channel partners are armed with the industry’s best cybersecurity solutions, technical expertise, and deep knowledge of the changing threat landscape to best secure their customers. “This year’s winners are unsung heroes who have clearly differentiated themselves as trusted security advisors, and we are thrilled to recognize their success.” Sophos 2020 Africa partner award winners were recognised in the categories of Distributor of the Year-Mart Networks Limited, Emerging Distributor of the Year, Partner of the Year, Emerging Partner of the Year, Synchronized Security Partner of the Year, Cloud Partner of the Year among others. VANGUARD By Juliet Umeh Next-generation Cybersecurity Company, Sophos, said its latest Endpoint Detection and Response, EDR, would provide industries, security analysts and information communication administrators solution with live discovery and response capabilities. According to the company, the advancements in the solution make it faster and easier for users to identify and… June 17, 2020 In "Technology" Cybercriminals are deploying multiple attack methods to get a perfect result of compromising data of unsuspecting members of the public, leading one of global leaders in network and endpoint security, Sophos, to advise users to also protect themselves with multiple security applications so as not to feel the full impact… July 17, 2019 In "Technology" As cybercrimes become more rampant and sophisticated, Cisco, the global leader in IT and networking, has called on businesses to adopt security measures and to take a comprehensive approach across people, process, technology and policy to protect their businesses from hackers and cyber criminals. The company made this call at… March 29, 2018 In "News"