Alvaro Morata has completed a return to Juventus on an initial one-year loan deal from Atletico Madrid, the clubs have announced. The Serie A champions confirmed the move on Tuesday, sealing Morata’s services for a second spell. Juve will pay Atletico €10million, with the Italian club having an option to buy the 27-year-old striker for €45m or pay another €10m to loan him for a further campaign. Should the Bianconeri opt to extend the loan, they will be able to purchase Morata for €35m at the end of the 2021-22 season. A Juve statement read: “Memory albums are there to be opened, to reminisce upon old moments, but also to add new ones and we can’t wait to create many more memories, together once more! “Even though Alvaro left the club four years ago, after having won five trophies in two years: two Scudetti, two Coppe Italia, one Supercoppa Italiana, he has always remained Bianconero in his heart and his return will be as though he never even said goodbye.” Morata scored 27 goals in 93 games across two seasons in Turin between 2014 and 2016. He then returned to Real Madrid for a year before joining Chelsea and later Atletico, where he netted 12 LaLiga goals in 34 games last term. With Gonzalo Higuain having left to join Inter Miami, Juve had been linked with Barcelona’s Luis Suarez and Roma’s Edin Dzeko. Morata’s move could pave the way for Suarez to join Atletico. Juve have won nine consecutive Serie A titles and opened their campaign under Andrea Pirlo with a 3-0 win over Sampdoria on Sunday. Fotmob Vanguard Alvaro Morata poked fun at VAR after scoring his first goal for Atletico Madrid on Sunday as Barcelona's closest challengers kept up the chase with a 2-0 win over Villarreal. February 24, 2019 In "Sports" Chelsea have reached an agreement to buy Spain international striker Alvaro Morata from Real Madrid for a reported 80 million euros ($92.2 million), the two clubs announced on Wednesday. July 20, 2017 In "News" Cristiano Ronaldo taunted them with five twiddling fingers, one for each of his Champions League medals, but Atletico Madrid left believing they were closer to the next one. February 21, 2019 In "Sports"