THE Nigerian maritime industry is in some form of confusion as the Nigerian Port Authority, NPA, terminated the boat service contract of the Integrated Logistics Limited, Intels, an action the firm said it had a restraining court order on the Authority. A marine notice circulated last week by the NPA to all stakeholders directed that all marine services through Intels be stopped forthwith. NPA stated: ‘‘Service Boats operations (Previously) handled by a Third PartyCompany, the Integrated Logistics Services (Intels) Nigeria Limited have been terminated’’.  The marine notice signed by NPA’s Harbour Master, Capt Daniel Hosea, said that every boat movement must be reported and booked at the office of the Harbour Master. Part of the notice reads: “This is to inform our numerous stakeholders in Nigeria and abroad that the Service Boats operation hitherto handled by a third party Company, the Integrated Logistics Services (Intels) Nigeria Limited has been terminated. “By this notice, all Service Boas Owners and Operators are to do transactions directly in each of the Port Complx of the Nigerian Ports Authority. “Every Service Boat movement must be reported and booked at the office of the Harbour Master of the District, where Pilotage chits and Master Declaration form will be issued and returned after every movement. “Every  enquiry of Service Boat movement should be directed to the office of the Port Manager of the Port/Harbour Master, Pilotage District.”  By Zik Zulu Okafor It was on April 27, 2015. The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) sent a simple, concise but corrosive letter to sea ports operators. This letter carried a directive from the immediate past President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. This directive carried two… June 11, 2015 In "Special Report" THE House of Representatives Committee on Ports, Harbours and Waterways, yesterday, tackled government agencies that failed to submit memoranda as it began a 3-day investigative hearing on alleged disposal/occupation of land belonging to the Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, the Nigerian Shippers Council, NSC, and National Inland Waterways Authority, NIWA, and… August 14, 2018 In "News" Chief Reginald Amadi is the Public Relations Officer of the Delta/Edo Command of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Custom Agents. In this interview with Sunday Vanguard in Warri, Amadi speaks on the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA)/Integrated Logistics Services (INTELS) row, among other issues in the maritime sector. Excerpts: October 29, 2017 In "Business"