Notore Chemical Industries Plc has donated a 40,000 litre solar-powered integrated water project to Kangare Community in Bauchi Local Government, Bauchi State. The project is a key part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) aimed at enhancing the wellbeing of farmers and communities in which it operates in Nigeria. The company will also sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Bauchi State Government to provide farmers inputs at affordable prices in 20 local government areas of the state. Group Managing Director/Group Chief Executive Officer of Notore, Mr. Onajite Okoloko, who was represented by the company’s Head of Government Affairs, Mr. Yakubu Abdurrahman, at the commissioning ceremony of the water project in Kangare, said: “As an active member of the Kangerefarming community, Notore noted the shortage of potable drinking water as one of the major social challenges facing the community. Consequently, we decided to construct a 40,000 litre capacity solar powered water project to support the state government’s visible efforts at ameliorating the living conditions of the good people of Bauchi.” He noted that the integrated water project was meant to show the company’s support to Governor BalaMohammed’s efforts at improving the lives of the people. According to him, “To drive home our aim of championing Africa’s green revolution, through increased farm yields, Notore has recruited over 3,600 world class extension service professionals to work hand- in-hand with farmers in almost all the 774 local government areas in the country, teaching them best farming practices.” Governor Bala Mohammed said the state government would sign an MoU with Notore to ensure farmers reap bountifully from the government’s agricultural policy. The governor said under the agreement, the state government will also ensure timely provision of extension services to farmers so as to improve their knowledge on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP). He noted that the target of his administration is to increase yield and production, strengthen extension services and create wealth for the people. According to him, “Notore is so important to us because of the developing capacity of our economy. We have the best land for agriculture in Bauchi and would leverage this relationship to exploit our land assets for wealth creation.’’ The federal government’s drive for economic diversification may have thrown up new directions for private sector led growth where emphasis is now on value-added growth in the primary produce segment. August 2, 2018 In "Business" IN an apparent bid to reduce the volume of rice imports into the country, Notore Chemical Industries Limited, and Taraba State Government have signed a memorandum of understanding, MoU, to build a multi-billion naira rice mill in the state. June 24, 2009 In "Business" AS part of its commitment towards revolutionizing the agricultural sector toachieve food security in the country Notore Chemical Industries Limited, agro-allied giant and Champion of the African Green Revolution has entered into partnership deal with Taraba State Government to erect a multi-billion Rice Mill in the state. July 4, 2009 In "Business"