Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC), Ilorin zonal office, have arrested two lecturers of the Kwara State College of Health Technology, Offa; Abdulahi Opashola and Adebisi Ademola and twenty-eight others over their alleged involvement in offences bordering on internet fraud. This is contained in a press statement issued by the Commission’s spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, made available to journalists in Ilorin. The suspects were arrested at different locations within Kwara State, following intelligence reports gathered by operatives of the Commission over their alleged involvement in the offence. The statement added the commission is also tracking the herbalist working for the alleged fraudsters said to be on the run. Items recovered from the suspects now in the custody of the commission include cars, phones, laptops among others. The twenty-eight other suspects as listed in the statement are: Kingsley Essien; Tobiloba Adenuga; Tope Ayodele; Rasheed Mujib; Oladipo Opeyemi; Saadu Muktar; Oladejo Hammed; Hammed Tope; Ameachi Umenyi, Salauden Adam and Afolabi Gafar. Others are: Oladimeji Timi; Remilekun Adeolu; Audu John; David Momodu; Abdulkareem Samad; Adebiyi Sodiq; Dawodu Olusoji; Yusuf Amoo; Kehinde Olarenwaju; Philip Mike, Ademola Adebukola and Adeniyi Olamilekan. The rest are : Adeyemi Adedeji; Ajayi Teslem; Olawale Oladayo, Olasunkanmi Olawale and Adeleke Damilola. Vanguard News Nigeria. …recovers dangerous charms, fake currency among others By Demola Akinyemi - Ilorin The Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC) Ilorin Zonal Office have arrested ten persons including two brothers of the same mother over their alleged offences bordering on internet fraud and other fraud-related Offences. According… October 24, 2019 In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ilorin Zonal Office, says it has arrested a member of the Kwara House of Assembly (name withheld), for alleged N4 million fraud. May 9, 2019 In "News" The Ilorin zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has arrested twin brothers:  Kehinde Adebayo and Taiye Adebayo over their alleged involvement in offences bordering on internet fraud. They were arrested at their hideout in Ilorin, Kwara State on Tuesday, September 8, 2020, following intelligence received by… September 9, 2020 In "News"