Canadian researchers said Monday they are investigating a popular superfood — the acai berry — as a treatment to prevent COVID-19’s most severe symptoms. Past studies have shown the berry’s extract may act as an inflammation inhibitor, which doctors believe could help prohibit the severe inflammatory response caused by the coronavirus. University of Toronto scientists Michael Farkouh and Ana Andreazza, who have studied the berry’s effect on inflammation responses for nearly five years, are researching how it can be used to fight COVID-19. “It’s a long shot,” Farkouh told AFP. “But acai berries are cheap and easily accessible for everyone, as well as safe, so it was worth trying.” The pair enrolled some 580 patients who have tested positive for coronavirus in Canada and Brazil, where the berry is grown. Half took doses of the extract while the rest received placebos. The hope is that early intervention with acai could help prevent some of the disease’s worst symptoms, which can lead to hospitalization and death, Farkouh said. He explained that the extract specifically targets the same NLRP3 pathway as the coronavirus, which when activated triggers the body’s response to fight off infection and stress. Results of the 30-day study are expected to be released at the end of 2020. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Teddy Riley and Kenneth “Babyface” Edmonds gave fans hit after hit during their rescheduled Instagram Live battle on Monday night, including Edmonds’ attempt at once hooking up Michael Jackson with Halle Berry. The R&B legends traded songs from their catalogs while dropping “fun facts” about their favorite tracks and collaborators.… April 22, 2020 In "Entertainment" Swiss pharmaceutical giant Roche said Thursday that it is planning to test whether a mix of its arthritis drug tocilizumab and Gilead's antiviral drug remdesivir could treat severe cases of COVID-19 effectively. Roche said in a statement that it had joined forces with Gilead for a global phase III clinical… May 28, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" SERIES of factors that the majority of COVID-19 patients share have been identified by researchers from eight institutions in China and the United States – including the Chinese People’s Liberation Army General Hospital in Beijing and the University of California. April 18, 2020 In "Health"