Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, weekend, lifted the ban on all social gatherings in the state. In a statement through Barr. Orji Uchenna Orji (Commissioner for Information and State Orientation), the Governor directed “that all public and private schools from primary to tertiary levels shall re-open on 5th October 2020.” According to the statement: “That all restrictions in respect of movement order on public burials/ wake keeps, weddings, conferences, meetings, festivals, religious services/ gatherings are hereby lifted. “In furtherance of the state post COVID-19 economic recovery plans , the Governor of Ebonyi State, His Excellency, Engr Chief David Nweze Umahi FNSE FNATE, in exercise of the powers conferred on him by provisions of Ebonyi State Coronavirus and other Dangerous Infectious Diseases and Related Matters Law 005 of 2020 and other relevant Laws, and subject to the NCDC COVID-19 Protocols and other directives of the Presidential Task on COVID-19, has issued proclaimations relapsing  restrictions on events and gathering of persons in the state. “In this regard therefore, His Excellency the Governor  has directed as follows: That all public and private schools from primary to tertiary levels shall re-open on 5th October 2020 “That all restrictions in respect of movement order on public burials/ wake keeps, weddings, conferences, meetings, festivals, religious services/ gatherings, etc are hereby lifted. “That all closures of public places such as event centres, bars, places of worship, educational institutions, public parks, night clubs, cinemas, viewing centres  and other such public places are hereby lifted. “That all restrictions on conduct of business and commercial activities are hereby rescinded. “That all regulations in respect of wearing of facemasks, washing of hands, use of hand sanitizers and social distancing are still in force in public places,events and gatherings “The Governor further charges all security agencies and public office holders especially the Chairmen of Local Government Areas and Coordinators of Development Centres   to enforce the subsisting regulations contained in the proclaimation hereof  in the interest of the safety and health of our people.” Vanguard  Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has confirmed that states in the South-East zone were yet to record any confirmed case of the dreaded Coronavirus, known as COVID-19. Umahi, who is the Chairman of the South-East Governors Forum stated this at a press briefing on Tuesday in Abakaliki. He said that… March 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi says he will not totally lockdown the state even as the cases of Coronavirus pandemic increased in the country. April 26, 2020 In "News" The Ebonyi Government says it plans to provide foodstuffs to registered commercial motorcyclists (Okada) to cushion the effect of the ban on their operation in the state. The state government on April 11, banned all forms of motorcycle riding because ‘okada’ riders convey people into the state through illegal routes… April 13, 2020 In "News"