Stakeholders, Tuesday, faulted the continued usage of the Nigeria Customs Service, NCS, electronic valuation (-valuation) platform, the Pre-Arrival Assessment Report, PAAR, claiming it is now outdated and also illegal. Immediate past National President, Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents, Olayewola Shittu, said that PAAR worked and was sustainable until human interference began to undermine the electronic system. Similarly, President of the National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents, NCMDLCA, Lucky Amewiro, said that PAAR process lacks, “Assessment and report.” He noted that PAAR only contained documents submitted that were not physically inspected to generate report and give assessment based on the report. He further pointed out that the document checks and information supplied by the importer without physical inspection is in clear contravention of World Trade Organisation, WTO, convention of import inspection and the Customs and Excise Management (Amendment) Act 20 of 2003. He further noted that the PAAR was supposed to perform a comprehensive assessment of imported goods by classifying and valuing them based on international standards and conventions in order to generate a PAAR for analyzing risks. Amewiro, stated: “The process is a duplication as well as indiscriminate jerking up of figures in contravention of the Customs and Excise Management (Amendment) Act 20 of 2003 and the WTO Convention on inspection of goods.” Vanguard News Nigeria The National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents, (NAMDLCA) has petitioned the Presidency over the total collapse of the Pre-Arrival Assessment Report, (PAAR) introduced by the management of Nigeria Customs Service. August 17, 2015 In "Business" December 1st, 2013, will remain an indelible date in the annals of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). It was the day the Dr. Abdullah Inde Dikko led management snatched the Destination Inspection’s (DI) “Magic Wand” from the “Service Providers”. April 25, 2014 In "News" Stakeholders in the maritime industry have called on the Federal Government to constitute a committee to work out smooth transition of scanning functions from the Service Provider to the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) at the end of the six months extension. January 10, 2013 In "Business"