The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo says come Sept. 19 Edo people will bury dictatorship politically. Governor Godwin Obaseki, candidate of the party said this on Friday during the ward-to-ward campaign rally at Ward eight, Ward 10, and Uselu market in Egor Local Government Area of Edo. He noted that the “dictator” to be buried politically had already been retired politically. He also said that the same “dictator” had before now sold the Uselu market adding that it was why the shop rental at the market was N1 million until the present administration, manned by him, came on board and reversed the sale. According to him, what is bad is bad, adding that such people who do not have the well being of the people of the state at heart should not be allowed back to government. The candidate emphasised that his administration was building institutions, noting that institutions would outlive individuals. “Democracy will continue beyond us, institutions will outlive us, that is why this election is about building institutions,” he said. Earlier, Mr Philip Shaibu, the deputy governorship candidate said that it was time for the youth to take their destiny in their hands. Shaibu said that the nation and Edo, in particular, must return to the era of building institutions and not individuals for the benefit of all. “Obaseki is a man of mission and vision for the state,” he declared. He also charged the people not to be intimidated and ensure that their votes count on Sept. 19. “Our future is in our hands, and we must provide leadership,” he said. (NAN) VANGUARD Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, on Friday, urged voters in the state to go out en-masse and cast their votes for the PDP in the September 19, 2020 governorship election and ensure they defend their votes by keeping an eagle-eye on… August 15, 2020 In "News" A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Chief Francis Inegbiniki, yesterday declared that the current political structure being built by governor Godwin Obaseki ahead the 2020 governorship election will not lead him to victory but failure. May 10, 2019 In "News" Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo, has called on leaders and residents of Agbede community in Etsako West Local Government Area of the state to provide 10 hectares of land where a park for articulated vehicles will be built. August 12, 2020 In "News"