  The Chartered Insti​tute of Stockbrokers (CIS), yesterday, defended the floating of Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment Management, CISIM, to replace the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers, CIS in line with global structure.  The President of CIS, Mr Olatunde Amolegbe in a statement said: “The CISIM’s Bill is currently with the National Assembly and will replace the CIS Act 105 of 1992 when passed into law. Investment and Securities Act, ISA provides for individual operators that deal in securities to be certified by the CIS and that is why we are moving for the replacement. Meanwhile, the CIS    in  collaboration with  three other  professional bodies  have    signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)    to establish  CISIM  to bring securities dealers and investment managers in Nigeria under one umbrella.  At the last count, apart from the CIS, the three other professional bodies that signed the historic MoU are the  Association of Investment Advisers and Portfolio Managers  (AIPM) , The Fund Managers Association of Nigeria (FMAN), Association of Issuing Houses of Nigeria (AIHN) with ASHON’s Chairman, Chief Onyenwechukwu Ezeagu as an observer.  Amolegbe said : “The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers Act 105 of 1992, which established the CIS provides that individual operators that deal in securities, including Stocks, Treasury Bills, Bonds,  Commodities etc shall be trained and certified by the Institute. At the moment, certain  gaps in the  Act are exploited by  some individuals to deal in securities without any form of certification  and requisite  training. Therefore, the CISIM  Bill when passed into law, will  bring capital market professionalsunder a common objective without encroaching on  one another’s  business, make regulation easier, and enhance global competitiveness.”  Commenting further on the MoU, the President, CIS, the CIS President said; “ The proposed Bill was nothing unusual, commended the professional bodies that signed the MOU for sincerity and unity of purpose. “  Amolegbe explained that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), the apex regulator and Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) respectively, regulate Stockbrokers but the ISA provides for individual operators that deal in securities to be certified by the Institute while their organizations are regulated by SEC and The NSE and these are two different roles.   In his response, President, AIPM, Prince Abimbola Olashoresaid: “ We share common goals and there is a need for standardization to enhance our advocacy. The Association of Investment Advisers and Portfolio Managers (AIPM) subscribes to the ideals of the proposed Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment Management (CISIM) in Nigeria.”  By Peter Egwuatu The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Wednesday, justified the floating of Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment Management, CISIM to replace the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers, CIS in line with global structure. The President of CIS, Mr Olatunde Amolegbe in a statement said: “The CISIM’s Bill is… September 16, 2020 In "News" The Financial Market Dealers Association of Nigeria (FMDA) has kicked against move by the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) and four other professional bodies to float the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment of Nigeria (CISI) to control and regulate financial market operations in Nigeria. August 23, 2020 In "Business" The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) in collaboration with five frontline professional bodies are warming up to float an umbrella body to be called the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment of Nigeria , CISI to bring capital market professionals under common objectives. August 21, 2020 In "Business"