Chairmanship hopeful for Burutu local government area of Delta State, Tamaraukuro Forteta, has promised to reposition the council if elected stressing that he will be anchoring his agenda on “Burutu beyond federal allocation” in the administration of the council. Forteta who is a youth leader of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP from the area, made the disclosure to newsmen yesterday following the conclusion of his consultation to leaders of the party in the area. Promising to reposition the council in the consolidation of achievements by leaders of the party in the area, he stated that amidst monthly allocations from the federal government, Burutu council will operate and function independently without waiting cap in hand for such allocations. Speaking on his confidence in emerging as council boss for the area, he hinted that though he has no political godfather, he is relying on God and the people of Burutu to help him achieve his dreams for the council. He said: “I am in touch with the people and being a grassroot person who knows the realities on the ground, I believe I have a lot to offer in service to the people of Burutu local council. “I will be working for the people rather than for a selected few and the elites of the council, I want to be the masses general “I hope to consolidate on the achievements of the past leaderships of the council and attract development using my nationwide contacts as I believe the local councils can run and function without federal allocation.” Vanguard A Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, stalwart and former Chairman of Burutu Local Government Area of Delta State, Mr. Asupa Forteta and four others have been suspended indefinitely by the party for what it called gross undemocratic activities in Ward 9, Ogbolubiri, Burutu council. July 17, 2014 In "News" The group claimed that the chairman stayed more outside the local government area, adding that his absence has affected the local government economically and otherwise, especially in terms of development. December 2, 2009 In "News" Director of Finance, Delta Councilors Coalition for Okowa’s Reelection, DECCOR, 2019, Mr. Joseph Alubeze,  has said the appointment of Chief Julius Takeme as a Commissioner for Urban Renewal will not only bring honour and pride to Burutu Local Government Area of the state but the Ijaw nation at large. October 29, 2018 In "News"