Vice-President of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management, CIPM, of Nigeria, Mrs. Titilayo Akisanya, has lauded the recent collaboration between the institute and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, ACCA, Nigeria. CIPM, a body of human resources, HR, professionals in Nigeria, signed a Memorandum of Understanding MoU with ACCA, a body of professional accountants, in Ikeja, Lagos, last Wednesday. Akisanya, who spoke to newsmen after the event, said she was optimistic that the cross-pollination of the two professions in building capacity and capability, would unleash well-rounded business professionals in the market in Nigeria, in West Africa and in Africa as a whole. “This signing, which I have called a marriage, is really significant. What it really means is, HR professionals understanding finance and accounting as it is known in today’s world, will be better business leaders and business managers,” said Akisanya. “They will understand how the various businesses make money and how they can utilise and appropriate those monies in a meaningful way to enrich the personnel within the organisation.” Akisanya went on to add that the collaboration would help drive engagement levels as it is about connecting with the head, the heart and the mind, so that productivity can increase. On his part, the Head of ACCA Nigeria, Mr. Tom Isibor reiterated that the MoU signing was not a photo-op, but a deliberate effort to impart both professional bodies meaningfully. “I’m super excited. The collaboration portends a lot of opportunities for members of both organisations in terms of capacity and capability development,” said Isibor. “In today’s world where members need skilling and re-skilling to be relevant, we believe that this partnership has the potential to deliver that.” Also present at the MoU signing were the Registrar/CEO of CIPM, Mrs. Busola Alofe; the Chairperson, advisory committee of ACCA Nigeria, Mr. Babajide Ibironke; HR business partner, Africa and Emerging Markets of ACCA, Ms. Nneka Idan; and few other top members from the two professional bodies. VANGUARD By Elizabeth Osayande The Chartered Institute for Personnel Management of Nigeria, CIPM has entered into partnership with the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health IOSH, on ways to improving and saving lives at workplaces. Speaking recently at signing of memorandum of understanding, MoU done virtually, IOSH CEO, Mrs. Bev Messinger,… September 4, 2020 In "News" The Lagos State Government says it will collaborate with the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria (CIPM) to deepen professionalism among workers in the state civil service. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said this on Monday during a visit by a delegation of CIPM. Sanwo-Olu said that there was… October 7, 2019 In "News" The Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria has urged Human Resource (HR) managers’ and practitioners to remodel leadership lifestyle in their workplaces. August 6, 2017 In "News"