OPPOSITION People’s Democratic Party in Ondo state has appealed to the security agencies in the state to stem the tide of political violence across the state. Governorship election in the state would hold on October 10 across the 18 council areas of the state. The PDP in the state pointedly accused the governor Rotimi Akeredolu led All Progressive Congress of orchestrating the violence across the state. It’s Publicity Secretary, Kennedy Peretei  in a statement in Akure charged “President Muhammadu Buhari and security agencies to as a matter of urgency, stem the tide of allegedly violence being orchestrated by the ruling APC, and ensure a peaceful governorship election in the State on October 10, 2010. “We are also appealing to President Muhammadu Buhari to live up to his constitutional responsibility of protecting lives and properties of Ondo State people at this critical time. “The Security Agencies in Ondo must also as a matter of urgency stem the tide of violence orchestrated by the APC to ensure that we have peaceful election in Ondo State. “For the second time in three weeks, thugs loyal to the All Progressives Congress (APC) have molested supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Owo. “This recurrent development has now shown that the APC is not prepared for a free and fair election on October 10. “The APC’s penchant for provocation and unleashing violence on the peace loving people of Ondo State are a recurring decimal. “Supporters of the party putting on face caps having the PDP logo and emblem around Ekusi and Stadium areas of Owo, were attacked by APC thugs. This is a dangerous trend that can jeopardise the peace our party stands for,” Peretei said. But in a swift response, the state All Progressive Congress Publicity Secretary, Alex Kalejaye who denied the allegation described it as unfortunate. Kalejaye in a statement said “ lt is rather unfortunate that the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, has chosen to submerge itself in needless and unwarranted verbal attacks on the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC. “ The APC has no reason to inflict pains on the people, the party has served meritoriously since 2017. The preoccupation of the ruling party is the well-being of the citizens, irrespective of party affiliations, and the development of the State. “ The party has consistently educated its members on how to conduct decent campaigns,  as against that of the PDP that glories in “do or die” approach to political activities. “ The APC wants to believe that the excessively desperate PDP is not employing these porous allegations as ploy to unleash terror on the people. This will be unacceptable to the ruling party. Kalejaye therefore urged “all political parties, including the PDP, to join hands with the APC-led government to ensure rancour-free campaigns, and promote peace throughout the electioneering period. Vanguard Riots erupted across many parts of Ondo state yesterday as protesters trooped to the streets to protest the substitution of the name of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP, governorship candidate, Mr Eyitayo Jegede SAN by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) with that of Barrister Jimoh Ibrahim for next month’s… October 29, 2016 In "News" As the people of Ondo State prepare to elect a new governor on Nov. 26, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state has accused Gov. Olusegun Mimiko of plotting to cause mayhem. October 30, 2016 In "News" The protest in Ondo State, over the weekend, took a bloody dimension as a secondary school student was said to have been hit by the tear gas canister, released by the police in dispersing the rioters in Ondo town, near Ife garage. October 31, 2016 In "News"