Kwara State Government has received a bank draft for another N148,049,580:81 looted funds which the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) recently recovered from some officials of the past administration. According to the statement issued by governor’s Chief press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye to journalists in Ilorin on Friday morning, the money was received on Thursday on behalf of the state government by Commissioner for Finance and Planning Olasumbo Florence Oyeyemi. The commissioner reportedly commended the EFCC for its patriotic efforts to stamp out corruption and abuse of public office and assured that the money would be duly appropriated and deployed to serve the public that it is meant for. The Ilorin Zonal Head of the EFCC Mr Oseni Kazeem had during a recent courtesy visit to Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq announced the recovery of new loots for the government. AbdulRazaq had in turn commended the anti-graft agency which he observed has continued to recover funds stolen from public treasury, saying the funds would be judiciously used including for social investment programmes of the administration. The anti-graft agency had earlier made similar recoveries of public funds. Vanguard Ilorin—Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State, yesterday said his administration would partner the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, to combat graft, including recovering of funds looted from the state's treasury. August 7, 2019 In "News" Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara has said that the looted funds recently returned to the state would go into social investment programme to benefit the poor. Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the Governor, Rafiu Ajakaye said this in a statement on Friday in Ilorin. According to Ajakaye, Gov AbdulRazaq said… October 12, 2019 In "News" By Demola Akinyemi ILORIN--The Zonal Head, Economic and Financial Crime Commission[EFCC]in Ilorin, ACP Isyaku Sharu Tuesday handed over N263,327,800.00[Two hundred and sixty-three million, Three hundred and twenty-seven thousand and Eight hundred naira only] cash out of N5B allegedly looted by top government officials of the last administration in the state… March 3, 2020 In "News"