The FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, has urged Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) to address traffic congestion that occurred regularly at the Lugbe axis along the Airport Road especially in the evenings. Mr Anthony Ogunleye, Chief Press Secretary to the minister in a statement on Sunday in Abuja, said Bello made the pledge when he received a delegation from the FRSC, led by the new Zone 7 Area Commander, Assistant Corp Marshal, Jonas Agwu. The minister noted that the Airport Road was the gateway into the City and should at all times reflect orderliness. He assured that the FCTA would support and partner with the FRSC for the effective use of  Mobile Court system to correct traffic offenders. The minister stressed the need for the corps to deploy more men and equipment to ensure enforcement of road safety laws on the roads. “Particular attention should be placed on the traffic congestion that occurs regularly at the Lugbe axis along the Airport Road,  especially in the evenings, where unauthorised trading takes place usually under the pedestrian bridges,” he said. The minister also emphasised the need for enforcement of traffic and road safety laws,  adding that enforcement was key to the success of FRSC operations. Bello, who said that the laws establishing the FRSC were explicit and very strong, called on the FCT Sector Command of the FRSC to put the laws to good use. Earlier, Agwu commended the minister for his openness and support for the FRSC, which had contributed to the successes achieved by the corps in the nation’s capital. He also appreciated the good working relationship among the various relevant agencies in the FCT involved in the 9management of traffic and curbing insecurity in the territory. Agwu pledged to build on the existing structures available in the FCT to meet the effective road safety and traffic management objectives of the FCTA. He said that the creation of more designated bus stops and deployment of more high capacity buses would further aid traffic flow in the city. Vanguard The FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, has urged Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) to address traffic congestion that occurred regularly at the Lugbe axis along the Airport Road especially in the evenings. Mr Anthony Ogunleye, Chief Press Secretary to the minister in a statement on Sunday in Abuja, said Bello… September 6, 2020 In "News" Former Military President, Ibrahim Babangida, on Monday, urged the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) to brace up for the “enormous challenges’’ ahead in the management of traffic on the nation’s highways. February 19, 2018 In "News" The Minister, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammed Bello, says all illegal car parks would be closed to ensure safety in FCT. November 1, 2019 In "News"