The Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Rep. Ndudi Elumelu has described Governor Godwin Obaseki’s re-election by the people of Edo state as deserving. The Minority Leader, in a statement on Sunday in a congratulatory message, said his sterling performance in developing the state and empowering the people during his first tenure, gave him the victory. The principal legislator also thanked the people of Edo state “for the courage they exhibited incoming our en masse not only to vote but also to protect their votes and monitor the process to the end”. The Minority leader applauded the Chairman of the South-South PDP Governors Forum, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for the leadership role he played towards the success of the election. The lawmaker also commended “Governor Nyesom Wike, the chairman of the PDP National Campaign Council, Governor Seyi Makinde, as well as other PDP governors, the PDP National Assembly Caucus, leaders, elders and teeming members of the party in Edo state, the South-South zone and the nation at large for their roles in upholding a free, fair and credible electoral process in Edo state”. He Elumelu urged Governor Obaseki to continue in providing good governance for the people of Edo state, which was the basis of his incontestable victory in the election. Vanguard News By Tordue Salem - Abuja The Minority Caucus of the House of Representatives has welcomed Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The Minority leader of the House, Rep. Ndudi ELumelu in a statement on Friday described Obaseki's decision "as a step in the right direction".… June 20, 2020 In "News" By Tordue Salem, Abuja The Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Rep. Ndudi Elumelu congratulates the Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa on his well-deserved victory as the Chairman of the South-South Governors’ Forum. The Minority Leader noted that the choice of the Delta State Governor by his… February 17, 2020 In "Politics" AFTER 12 cold years out of the Edo State Government House, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, without electoral contest, took over the government of the state as Governor Godwin Obaseki and his Deputy, Philip Shaibu, joined the party. June 20, 2020 In "News"