Barcelona are facing legal action from Quique Setien after the coach they sacked last month revealed dismay over the handling of his dismissal. Setien was removed from his post in a move that allowed Ronald Koeman to return to Camp Nou to take charge of the team. Former Real Betis boss Setien indicated Barcelona have offered no compensation and said the Catalan club have failed to honour terms of the contract he signed in January. In a statement that Setien posted on social media, from himself and his coaching team of Eder Sarabia, Jon Pascua and Fran Soto, it was claimed that all four only received written confirmation of their sackings on Wednesday of this week. Those came via burofax, the coaches said, with the statement saying there had been “absolute silence on the part of the FC Barcelona board of directors” until that point. According to the statement from Setien and his coaches, Barcelona indicated “a clear intention … not to comply” with contracts that were signed on January 14, in the week that Setien succeeded Ernesto Valverde. Setien said in the statement: “It is public and well known that, on August 17, both the club and the president announced my dismissal with immediate effect. “However, it was not until yesterday, September 16 (one month later), when they sent me, for the first time, the written communication of said dismissal (without any settlement).” The statement from Setien and his coaches added: “For all that has been said, we have been forced to put the conflict resolution in the hands of our lawyers, having to file the corresponding legal actions. “This is in order to preserve our rights and what was agreed upon with FC Barcelona.” Setien endured a tough seven months as head coach after relacing Valverde. Following a three-month pause in the season due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Barcelona were overtaken by Real Madrid in the LaLiga title run-in. They were then humiliated 8-2 by Bayern Munich in the quarter-finals of the Champions League, a result which proved the final straw for president Josep Maria Bartomeu and the Barcelona board as Setien departed. Captain Lionel Messi sought to follow his coach out of Camp Nou but could not agree terms for a free transfer. Fotmob Vanguard Newly appointed Barcelona coach, Quique Sentien could have missed the opportunity of managing the Catalan giants, after interviewing for the role as Watford boss in December. The Premier League club was rooted to the bottom of the log under Quique Sanchez Flores, and his sacking meant that the Pozzo family… January 15, 2020 In "Sports" Quique Setien began his first session as Barcelona coach on Tuesday morning just as the sacked Ernesto Valverde drove out of the training ground for the last time. Valverde had said goodbye to the players, collected his things and left, closing the page on a brutal few days that had… January 14, 2020 In "Sports" Barcelona coach Quique Setien insists his team were the better side and took a ‘step forward’ in Thursday night’s Copa del Rey quarter-final defeat to Athletic Bilbao at San Mames. Iñaki Williams scored a stoppage-time winner for Athletic Club, which consigned Barcelona to defeat and made it the first time… February 7, 2020 In "Sports"