The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has appealed its staff not to accorded any advantage to a political party or candidate over the other in the conduct of Edo governorship election. The Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, in his message issued in Abuja on Friday, urged the staff to be neutral at all times and stick strictly to INEC’s Code of Conduct and Oath of Neutrality to which they all subscribed. “Let me appeal to all of you to remain steadfast and committed to the ideals of the Commission. “Nigerians and the international community expect so much from us. They are watching. “It is important that we all remain above board in the performance of our respective duties. “We must ensure that no political party or candidate is accorded any advantage over the other,” Yakubu said. He said that as INEC begins the final countdown to the Edo governorship election, it was clear that all eyes were on the INEC to deliver a free, fair and credible process. Yakubu said he had no doubt that INEC staff members would rise to the occasion, saying, `we have done it several times before and we can do it again. “The Commission deeply appreciates the ever ending sacrifices made by our staff at all times, often beyond the call of duty, to ensure that we carry out our mandate. “The management will continue to improve the welfare and conditions of service of staff within the available resources. “We must be neutral at all times and stick strictly to our code of conduct and oath of neutrality to which we have all subscribed. “For at the end of the day, we would have all contributed to the sustenance of democracy and a strong electoral process that all Nigerians can trust,” he said. Vanguard News By Omeiza Ajayi Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission INEC, Professor Mahmood Yakubu has warned staff of the commission including those on ad hoc services against conferring undue advantage on any candidate or political party in Saturday's governorship election in Edo State. In a message to the staff of the Commission on… September 18, 2020 In "Edo Decides" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has pledged to deepen its collaboration with the Nigeria police and anti-graft agencies to tackle vote buying in the forthcoming Nov.16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa. October 29, 2019 In "News" Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, National Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has given assurance that the commission’s collation centre in Edo under construction will be ready before the state’s Sept. 19 governorship election. Yakubu gave the assurance when he visited INEC office in Benin and other offices in some local government… August 29, 2020 In "Politics"