One of the 13 suspended traditional rulers in Anambra State, Igwe Alex Edozieuno of Mkpunando Aguleri in Anambra East local government area has finally been dethroned and a new monarch, Igwe Johnson Onyeaka- Mbanefo, crowned for the community. The enthronement of the new traditional ruler took place at the Ukwuana -Isiokwe square, Mkpunando Aguleri amidst celebration. The coronation ceremony was witnessed by titled men, the ruling council, the various age-grades, women and youths of the community. It was gathered that the community’s four quarters namely, Ugwuoba, Umuagu na Obeke, Ivite Enu and Igboezunu unanimously agreed to install a new king. The oldest man in the community, Ichie Melionwu Udalor who expressed gladness that a leader whom God sent to them had come to stay, prayed their ancestors to give the new traditional ruler more wisdom throughout his reign. Crowning the new traditional ruler, the traditional prime minister of the community, Ichie Augustine Akwobi, said that having gone against the state government, the dethroned traditional ruler was adjudged to have also gone against the gods of the land and the entire Mkpunando, hence their decision to select Onyaka Mbanefo who, according to him, had distinguished himself in various aspects in the community. While thanking the community for finding him worthy to mount the throne, Igwe Onyeka_Mbanefo promised not to disappoint them. He said that whatever the community had in mind in calling him to mount the throne would be his watchword and prayed for the progress and long life of his subjects. The traditional ruler, in company of elders, titled men and others, later danced around the villages that make up Nkpunando Aguleri. VANGUARD By Vincent Ujumadu Awka – THE people of Ezuagulu Otu in Anambra East local government area of Anambra State whose traditional ruler, Igwe Peter Udorji Ikegbunam, was among the 12 monarchs suspended for one year by the state government for travelling to Abuja with the oil magnate, Prince Arthur Eze… August 18, 2020 In "News" Gov. Willie Obiano of Anambra has approved the suspension of 12 traditional rulers in the state for an initial period of one year with effect from Aug. 11, over alleged misconduct. August 13, 2020 In "News" By Vincent Ujumadu - Awka The events that led to the suspension of 13 traditional rulers in Anambra State by Governor Willie Obiano began several months ago when some of the monarchs in the state, particularly those from Anambra Central Senatorial zone, started hobnobbing with the notable billionaire oil magnate,… August 19, 2020 In "South East Voice"