Former governor of Kano State and Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki for his reelection in Saturday’s governorship election. He described the reelection of the governor as a “well-deserved victory.” Kwankwaso, in a statement through his Principal Private Secretary, Muhammad Inuwa Ali, Monday, in Abuja, said he particularly congratulated the people of Edo State for the governor’s victory because their action “symbolizes hope for every true democrat in our country.” He said Obaseki “worked very hard for the people of Edo State and they have reciprocated by coming out in droves not only to cast their votes for you but also to defend their votes and ensure that the multitude of election riggers mobilized by agents of doom, from different states, to steal the Edo election was made ineffective.” “The good people of Edo State have spoken. And the true choice of the people had prevailed. “I, therefore, join all citizens of goodwill to congratulate the people of Edo State on the successful and peaceful conclusion of the gubernatorial election which was held on Saturday, September 19, 2020,” he said. He added:” I am especially congratulating the Edo people for their foresight in re-electing their hardworking and effective Governor, Gov. Godwin Obaseki to continue with the excellent work of developing Edo State.” According to him,”Beyond this success, the action of the good people of Edo State symbolizes hope for every true democrat in our country.” “Without a doubt, our victory in Edo State was hugely facilitated by the outstanding commitment, resilience, courage, and the doggedness of the chairman of our Campaign Council, His Excellency Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and the entire members of the Campaign Council including all PDP governors. I commend you all as we celebrate the success-for-democracy in Nigeria.),” he added. “Let me also thank the representatives of the international community in Nigeria, especially the United State embassy in Nigeria and the United Kingdom embassy in Nigeria for their timely advice to merchants of election malpractice and perpetrators of electoral violence,” he further said. The statement read further: “Your advisory to election riggers and promoters of election violence to know that there are consequences, beyond the borders of Nigeria, for their ignominious action was very effective. We thank you for your interest in deepening democracy in our country. “There is no gainsaying that the Edo Victory is a victory for our great party, the PDP. I, therefore, congratulate our amiable Chairman Chief Uche Secondus and his entire team. This success is a testimony to your dexterity, political savvy, and focused leadership. Congratulations. “Finally, I wish to express my appreciation to numerous interest groups in Edo State, including the business community, traditional institution, the clergy, the academics, women groups, Civil Society groups, Arewa community, Edo Kwankwasiyya, the youth, the media, and students, most of whom I met with during my campaign visit to Edo State, for their support and cooperation. Edo success is your success!” Vanguard The Edo State Governor and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Godwin Obaseki and the former Governor of Kano State, Alhaji Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, have commissioned the Edo State Hajj Camp in Benin City, with a charge to Muslim faithful in the state to turn out en masse… September 14, 2020 In "Edo Decides" ...urge Nigerians to always stand for good leaders By Festus Ahon DELTA State Governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, has described the re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki as the confirmation of the will of the people, calling on Nigerians to always stand for good leaders as Edo people just did for Obaseki.… September 20, 2020 In "Politics" The Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Rep. Ndudi Elumelu has described Governor Godwin Obaseki's re-election by the people of Edo state as deserving. September 20, 2020 In "Politics"