Her Majesty, The Queen of England, has sent a message of felicitation to President Muhammadu Buhari on the occasion of Nigeria’s 60th Independence Anniversary, October 1, 2020. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina in a statement he issued in Abuja, Wednesday, said the message was conveyed by the British High Commission in Nigeria. According to the message, “It gives me great pleasure to offer my warmest congratulations on the 60th anniversary of Nigeria’s Independence, together with my best wishes for your country’s continued happiness and prosperity. “The United Kingdom and Nigeria benefit from strong and enduring ties as Commonwealth partners through shared history and most importantly, our people. These are bonds that I hope and believe will flourish long into the future.” Nigeria got her independence from Great Britain on October 1, 1960. Vanguard News Nigeria Ahead of Nigeria's 60th independence anniversary, the National Inter-Faith and Religious Organization for Peace (NIFROP) has commenced prayer and fasting for President Muhammadu Buhari and the entire country. At its meeting on Tuesday at the Unity Fountain, Abuja, the group described October 1st as a "day of convenant" which marked the… September 23, 2020 In "News" The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, has urged Nigerians to embrace the 60th Anniversary Logo of “Together Shall We Be”. Mustapha made on Wednesday in Abuja, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria(NAN). “Nigeria’s 60th-anniversary logo is a symbol of our journey to… September 17, 2020 In "News" President Buhari on Wednesday presided over Federal Executive Council Meeting and Unveiled Nigeria at 60 Anniversary Logo in State House on 16th Sep 2020 By Johnbosco Agbakwuru PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday unveiled the 60th Independence Anniversary celebration logo. President Buhari unveiled the logo at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa,… September 16, 2020 In "News"