FBN Insurance group, made up of FBN Insurance, FBN General Insurance and its new owners, the Sanlam Group, have said they remain committed to offering innovative product solutions to customers. The Group stated this during a virtual insurance brokers’ forum recently, even as it pledged to provide excellent services to its teeming clients. Speaking at the forum, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, FBN General Insurance, Mr. Bode Opadokun, applauded the brokers for their continued support to both businesses over the years. He said: “We remain committed to partnering with you in offering innovative product solutions to our customers and we are open to more suggestions that would help improve our service delivery to you.” Also speaking, Chief Executive Officer of the Sanlam Emerging Markets (SEM), Mr. Heinie Werth, stated that the core strategy of the Sanlam Group is to be one of the leading pan-African financial service providers. “With a business presence in 33 countries in Africa, we want to be the preferred service provider across the continent when it comes to providing financial solutions. “It is part of our ambition to be the number one pan-African financial services provider,” he added. VANGUARD After a deliberate or otherwise protracted delay, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) finally gave operating license to FBN Life Assurance Limited on September, 1 2010 to commence insurance business in the country. May 4, 2011 In "Business" National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has cautioned shareholders of FBN Life Assurance on dividend payment saying that life insurance business has long gestation and hence they should not expect dividend too soon. March 17, 2011 In "Business" First Bank Nigeria, FBN Holdings Plc has formally notified the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) of on-going discussions with its partner Sanlam Emerging Markets (“Sanlam”) the owners of 35 percent equity in FBN Insurance Limited (FBNI)regarding the proposed sale of the Company’s 65 percent equity in FBN Insurance Limited. April 18, 2020 In "Business"