 AS part of its effort to create employment for the unemployed, the National Directorate of Employment, NDE, has engaged 100 Deltans in its Sustainable Agricultural Development Training Scheme, SADTS. The scheme which is aimed at providing a more profitable farm income activities is also to promote environmental stewardship and enhance the quality of life for farmers and communities. The Director-General of NDE, Dr Nasir Mohammed Ladan, who declared the orientation and training exercise for the newly recruited trainees of SADTS open in Asaba, Wednesday, said the initiative was designed to give experiential training in crop production and livestock farming to unemployed persons. Laden who was represented by NDE South-south Zonal Director, Eden Duke, said the programme was meant for states with comparative advantage geared towards enhancing food production and mass employment. Also speaking, the State Coordinator, Mr Anthony Olu, disclosed that the training would take three months with four weeks of experiential training in both livestock and crops. Olu said: “The remaining period will be used for the production exercise on the Adoptive Experiential Farm”, saying that the opportunity before them was to acquire skills that would help them become “self-employed, sustaining and reliant.” Vanguard New ASABA-THE Federal Government has Sustainable Agricultural Development Training Scheme, SADTS as part of effort towards placing agriculture at par with other major profitable businesses across the country. November 20, 2017 In "News" The National Directorate of Employment (NDE) says it has begun practical training of the 50 youth recently inducted into its poultry farm scheme in Delta. The State Coordinator of the agency, Mr. Tony Olu, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Asaba.… November 19, 2019 In "Agric" National Directorate of Employment, NDE, Lagos, has commenced its skill acquisition training in sustainable Agricultural Development Training Scheme, SADTS, targeted at 50 unemployed youths. November 23, 2018 In "News"