President Muhammadu Buhari, Wednesday said that Nigeria is the most prosperous black nation in the world. Disclosing this while unveiling the theme and logo for the commemorative activities to celebrate 60 years of independence, Buhari said: “Today, we stand on the threshold of history as we formally begin a series of activities commemorating Nigeria’s Diamond Anniversary. “The task history has saddled me with today is to proclaim a theme that will keep us united, help us forge ahead and unveil a logo that will form the critical pillars which our 11-month modest commemorative activities would rest on. “Celebrating sixty years of independence really calls for pomp, but the global COVID-19 pandemic, which has forced all nations in the world to think and act differently, has also foisted on us the imperative of a low-keyed celebration. “Operating within the limitations placed by the COVID-19 pandemic, we created an internet challenge for Nigerians to make a choice from a set of four pre-selected logos that would appropriately define the theme. “Of these four options, Nigerians from all walks of life participated in making a choice and I am happy to let you know that the logo I would be unveiling is a product of choice from the Nigerian people,” President Buhari said. Speaking further on the logo, Buhari declared: ”The selected option depicts our togetherness, a country of over 200 million people whose natural talent, grit and passion glitter like the precious DIAMOND we are. “This, to me, is a special appreciation to our most precious asset – our people. Everywhere you go, Nigerians are sparkling like diamonds in the pack, whether in academia, business, innovation, music, movie, entertainment, fashion and culture. “Furthermore, the neatly encrusted Diamond on the Nigerian Map symbolizes our age of treasure, the worth of the Nigerian people with our sparkle to the admiration of the world. “In the same vein, the pear green and dark green colours should respectively remind us of our warmth, welcoming spirit and love as well as the abundant wealth inherent in our human capital and the richness of our land. “All these properties make us unarguably the most prosperous black nation in the world and Africa’s largest economy.” Vanguard President Buhari on Wednesday presided over Federal Executive Council Meeting and Unveiled Nigeria at 60 Anniversary Logo in State House on 16th Sep 2020 By Johnbosco Agbakwuru PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday unveiled the 60th Independence Anniversary celebration logo. President Buhari unveiled the logo at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa,… September 16, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has said that Nigeria has an unhealthy dose of disinformation, fake news, hate news, carried out by people who use media platforms, particularly the digital variant May 2, 2020 In "News" By Victoria Obaze THE advent of the deadly flu, 2019-nCoV RNA or COVID-19, or Sars-COV II, but more popularly known as coronavirus, is engendering the physical isolation of people globally, hurting economies of almost all nations, especially with the resultant lock-down. However, with the partial or full easing of the… June 18, 2020 In "Viewpoint"