An Abuja-based Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Initiative for Leadership Development and Change (ILDC), has commended President Buhari’s firm belief in the rule of law and tenets of democracy. Chief Ugochukwu Nnam, the National Coordinator of the group, said this in an interview with newsmen in Abuja on Wednesday. Nnam said that Edo election which was adjudged to be credible was a demonstration of President Buhari’s belief in democracy. He said that the era of ‘godfatherism’ and imposition of candidates on the people through fraudulent elections was coming to an end in Nigeria under the watch of President Buhari. “Power is gradually returning to the people as we saw in Edo, but the credit goes to President Buhari for guaranteeing an enabling ground without interferences. “This is what we are praying for and expecting from democratic government and we thank God for President Buhari’s belief in democracy,” he said. Nnam who urged Nigerians to sustain the feat in Edo said the change of government was only permissible through the ballot box. According to him, this will stimulate the leaders to perform knowing that they could be voted out if they fail. The Coordinator also enjoined politicians and political parties to do their homework well before elections. “It is not business as usual, it is time for politicians to know that the people and their votes matter no matter what.” Nnam, who reiterated his confidence in President Buhari, also commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), for a job well done, appealing for replication in future elections. Vanguard News Chief Ugochukwu Nnam, President, Initiative for Leadership Development and Change (ILDC), on Wednesday said that early lead of Governor Nyesom Wike of PDP was a demonstration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s belief in the tenets of democracy. April 3, 2019 In "News" The Buhari Support Organisation (BSO), has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for providing a level playing field for contestants in the just-concluded Edo governorship election. The BOS said this in a statement signed by the Chairman and Secretary of its Enugu State chapter, Chief Anike Nwoga and Mr Godwin Onwusi on… September 20, 2020 In "Politics" A chieftain of the Edo State All Progressives Congress (APC), has disclaimed a report insinuating that President Muhammadu Buhari has endorsed Ondo and Edo state Governors for a second term adding that “the President is a democrat and one who is not in the business of enthroning aspirants on his… May 18, 2020 In "News"