A Russian deputy energy minister has been arrested on suspicion of embezzling more than 600 million roubles worth of public money, investigators announced Wednesday. Anatoly Tikhonov, one of eight deputies to Energy Minister Alexander Novak, is accused of misusing public funds worth around 6.7 million euros ($7.9 million) which had been intended for a new IT system, announced top crime agency the Investigative Committee of Russia. The money was allegedly syphoned off from the Russian Energy Agency between 2013-2015 when it was headed by Tikhonov, the Kommersant newspaper reported. He was detained on Tuesday in Moscow and spent the day answering questions, Marina Litvinovich from the Russian Association of Prison Visitors told AFP. Corruption is endemic in Russia and several ministers, vice ministers and senior bureaucrats have been arrested in recent years to back up the public commitment of President Vladimir Putin to fight the problem. But opposition activists say the law is applied selectively to punish or threaten individuals who have fallen foul of Putin’s government. Opposition leader Alexei Navalny, who is recovering in a Berlin hospital after being poisoned last month in Siberia, has made his name uncovering corruption by the country’s political and business elite, right up to the president’s inner circle. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Russia responded angrily on Saturday to news that US senators had passed a bill calling for fresh sanctions against Moscow and the supply of lethal military aid to Ukraine. December 13, 2014 In "News" TOURISM: Shortly after the crisis erupted, Russia swiftly called on its citizens to scrap any travel plans to Turkey, dealing an immediate blow to the Turkish tourism industry. Russian tour firms promptly halted the sale of holidays to Turkey, in line with a directive from the federal tourism agency. November 30, 2015 In "News" Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho has been accused by a British MP of taking "blood money" in deciding to work as a World Cup pundit for Russian state-owned channel RT. March 13, 2018 In "Sports"