THE All Progressives Party (APC) in Edo State has alleged foul play in Saturday’s Governorship election but called on party members to stay calm while party leaders study the result and decide what is next. A statement by the Chairman of the APC Media Campaign Council, Mr. John Mayaki said the party rejected the result, citing alleged strong-arm tactics. He said “Our people were arbitrarily arrested, many of the figures were fabricated,” said the terse statement, which the party said was only a preliminary reaction. It further alleged illicit tampering with results, to shore up PDP numbers and markdown APC’s. “Areas where we won, they cancelled them. They decreased the votes in areas we had an advantage,” the party further claimed. “They rejected our results and jerked up theirs.” Meanwhile, the party also claimed there was arbitrary arrest of local party members, who could have resisted the outrage, while Governor Godwin Obaseki was busy diverting attention with false alarm. “Obaseki shouted that he was being rigged out and blamed INEC at the initial stage but that was to divert attention from the evil going on in the field”, the statement said. The party, however, told its members to stay calm, thanking them for their support, and adding that party leaders were studying the result and would announce their decision and course of action as soon as possible. Vanguard News Nigeria The All Progressives Congress (APC), Edo chapter on Sunday rejected the result of the Edo Governorship Election announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in Benin on Sunday. Chairman of the Edo APC Media Campaign Council, Mr John Mayaki, said in a statement that the party rejected the result,… September 20, 2020 In "Edo Decides" Efforts of governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC, to secure a soft-landing for Governor Godwin Obaseki have hit a brick-wall, if outcome of party leaders’ meeting with Professor Ibrahim Gambari, Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, are anything to go by. June 16, 2020 In "Politics" The polity was awash with mixed views, yesterday, as Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, and his Deputy, Comrade Phillip Shaibu, ended days of speculations on the direction of their political future by quitting the All Progressives Congress, APC.The polity was awash with mixed views, yesterday, as Governor Godwin Obaseki… June 17, 2020 In "News"