INMATES of the Nigerian Correctional Service in Bagudo Local Government Area of Kebbi State have been evacuated following the washing away of the centre by flood. The flooding has been adjudged the worst in the 22 local government areas of the state and has led to the closure of many facilities there to prevent loss of lives. With the destruction of many residential and public buildings as well as the submerging of livestock and farmlands, the residents had to flee. Most of the inhabitants of Bagudo are now taking shelter in internally displaced persons, IDP, camps. The Bagudo-Tuga-Kaoje route, which leads to Benin Republic border, including the Tuga Bridge, was also submerged, severing border communities in Nigeria from their international neighbours. Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu has, therefore, directed immediate distribution of food, water and medication to the flood ravaged communities. In Kwara State, over 2,500 residents of Jebba community in Moro Local Government Area were rendered homeless after their houses were submerged by flood during rainfall, which started on Thursday and continued till weekend. Deputy Leader in Kwara State House of Assembly, Hon John Olanrewaju Bello, who represents the area, Lanwa/Ejidongari, said plans were underway by the state government to evacuate victims pending when relief items would be brought to them. Vanguard Soni Daniel - Birnin Kebbi Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State has directed immediate distribution of food, water and medication to flood-ravaged communities in Bagudu and Kende in the state. Besides, the governor has ordered the urgent construction of additional toilets for the people sacked from their communities by… September 12, 2020 In "News" Kebbi State Government says it has lost about N1 billion worth of rice and other farms produce to ravaging flood recorded in different parts of the state. The government also urged the Federal Government to construct a dam to address perennial flooding in the state. Attahiru Maccido, the state’s Commissioner… August 31, 2020 In "Agric" ABUJA-THE Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, has sympathized with the government and people of Kebbi State following heavy thunderstorms and floods which washed away five bridges in the state. August 30, 2020 In "News"