Operatives of the Anti kidnapping unit Bayelsa State Police Command have foiled the kidnap of a medical doctor working at General Hospital Odi, in Kolokuma/Opukuma Local Government Area, of the State. It was gathered that some suspected kidnappers had conspired among themselves and went to the Doctors Quarters at the General hospital Odi, on September, 10, to kidnap him but met his absence. A statement by the Command’s Public Relations Officer, SP Asinim Butswat on Wednesday said: “On 16 September 2020, at about 0300hours, the anti-kidnapping team, on the instruction of the Commissioner of Police Bayelsa State Command, CP Mike Okoli fsi, went to Odi town and arrested the suspects namely; Sunny Ubaka ‘m’ 24 years, Inerepamo Ikati ‘m’ 21 years,  Pereowei John ‘m’  26 years  Osamedike Daniel 23 years and Sambo Olawei 22 years. “All the suspects have confessed to the crime. Investigation is ongoing.” Vanguard News Nigeria. THE Police in Delta State have turned the heat on kidnappers, robbers, cultists and other criminals in the state, busting kidnap gangs and arresting 22 suspected kidnappers, including a Kaduna-based soldier, Federal Capital Territory, FCT civil servant, abductors of a Divisional Police Officer, DPO, and employees who masterminded their kidnaps,… April 25, 2017 In "Crime Guard" ASABA- DETECTIVES in Delta Command have swooped on suspected kidnappers, capturing 14 and liberating 10 victims without ransom in 10 separate incidents involving a Senior Special Assistant to the Delta State Governor, pastor, retired naval officer, housewife and others at different parts of Delta State in the last few weeks. October 22, 2018 In "News" The Anambra State Police Command says it has smashed a kidnapping syndicate terrorising the state; and has arrested two suspected top members. In a statement signed by SP Haruna Mohammed, the Command’s Public Relations Officer (PRO), on Saturday, the police said the arrest followed a fierce gun battle with the… November 16, 2019 In "Metro"