Gareth Bale could make a sensational return to Tottenham after the Real Madrid star’s agent talked up a reunion. Wales star Bale has been frozen out of the first-team picture at Madrid by head coach Zinedine Zidane, despite a decorated stint in the Spanish capital which has included four Champions League triumphs. The 31-year-old joined Madrid from Spurs in September 2013 for what was then a world-record €100million fee. Tottenham are reported to be in talks over re-signing Bale, with a loan move thought to be most likely and wages understood to be in the region of £600,000 per week a significant hurdle to negotiate. Nevertheless, the winger’s agent Jonathan Barnett stated playing in north London once again would be his client’s preferred option. “Gareth still loves Spurs,” he told BBC Sport Wales. “It’s where he wants to be.” Manchester United have frequently been linked to Bale during his time in LaLiga. He does not fit the age profile of players United tend to sign, although he might be viewed as an alternative option at a time when attempts to bring Borussia Dortmund and England youngster Jadon Sancho to Old Trafford appear to have stalled. Bale’s team-mate, left-back Sergio Reguilon, has been linked to both United and Spurs. Tottenham head coach Jose Mourinho spoke of his desire to sign another forward ahead of the season opener against Everton last weekend and Bale’s arrival would certainly serve as a timely boost after that dispiriting 1-0 home loss. Fotmob Vanguard MADRID (AFP) - The agent of Tottenham Hotspur star Gareth Bale has claimed it could cost Real Madrid even more money than Barcelona paid for Neymar should they wish to land the Welshman in the coming months. May 30, 2013 In "Sports" Welsh star Gareth Bale joined Real Madrid in 2013 for a world record fee in excess of 100 million euros ($109 million, £77 million), a leaked report reveals. Whistleblowing website Football Leaks posted a copy of the agreement between Madrid and Tottenham Hotspur online on Wednesday. January 21, 2016 In "Sports" Gareth Bale's move to Chinese side Jiangsu Suning collapsed on Sunday after Real Madrid cancelled the proposed deal due to wrangling over the fee, a source told AFP on Sunday. July 28, 2019 In "News"