Attempting to address the challenge of high data consumption requirements for remote work, Internet Service provider, Spectranet 4G LTE has unveiled a unique set of data plans tagged: “Do More Spectracular data plans.” Speaking on the virtual launch of the new data plans, Chief Executive Officer, Spectranet 4G LTE, Ajay Awasthi said the company’s study of the customer behaviour during COVID-19 period highlighted a distinct shift in the browsing habits and usage patterns. He said: “The customers are now consuming more data during night hours than day hours. Even within day hours the early morning hours are showing a spike in usage. “Do More Spectracular data plans come packed with attractive data benefits. It is topped up with Free Unlimited data during certain times of the day and night such as Unified Value plans with Free Unlimited morning time data for 120 hours in a month and Mega Value plans with Free Unlimited night time data for 210 hours in a month. “Both the Unified and Mega Value Plans are available in various affordable denominations starting from N3070 and come with one month’s validity. He said that for customers who have significantly high Data requirements and want to enjoy uninterrupted Unlimited browsing 24/7 within a month, they can now subscribe to “Always-on” Data plan at an affordable amount. “The plan is for both new and existing subscribers who love to be on the internet to DO MORE of what matters to them like gaming, entertainment, online studying and for the data requirement of the entire family,” Awasthi explained. VANGUARD The Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Ajay Awasthi, said, Spectranet believe in delivering more value to customers. December 25, 2017 In "News" The most intricate irony of Nigeria’s broadband campaign is not availability. After all there are about 3 terabytes of broadband made possible by private investors who landed under sea broadband cable into the country from abroad. May 14, 2014 In "News" Internet Service Provider, Spectranet 4G LTE, has commenced a special promotion to reward its loyal customers this season with a double data offer. December 16, 2015 In "Technology"