Bill Gates says Pfizer has the best chance of seeking emergency approval for a coronavirus vaccine by next month even though he thinks such an aggressive timeline is unlikely. “The only vaccine that if everything went perfectly, might seek the emergency use license by the end of October, would be Pfizer,” the billionaire tech tycoon-turned-philanthropist told CNBC in an interview published Tuesday. Pfizer’s vaccine is one of three currently going through so-called Phase 3 clinical trials in the US, crucial late-stage studies aimed at proving whether the inoculations are safe and effective. CEO Albert Bourla said this week that the New York-based drugmaker will likely know by the end of next month whether its experimental COVID-19 shot actually works. Gates a Microsoft co-founder who is the world’s second-richest person with a net worth of $122.9 billion noted that Pfizer’s shot produced “good antibody levels” in the first two stages of clinical testing. But he nevertheless doubts that any candidate will try to have a vaccine approved in the US by the end of October, according to CNBC. “I do think once you get into, say, December or January, the chances are that at least two or three will (seek approval) if the effectiveness is there,” Gates told the network. Gates also noted that Pfizer and eight other drugmakers have pledged not to seek emergency authorization or approval for their vaccines until they’re proven safe and effective. The companies made the joint pledge last week amid reports that the Trump administration would try to fast-track the approval process. NY Post Vanguard GlaxoSmithKline, GSK, world's largest vaccine maker, has said there will be no mass coronavirus vaccine until late next year, just as Pfizer said its COVID-19 jab could be ready by this autumn (from September). Emma Walmsley, Chief Executive of GSK, said millions of doses would not be produced until the… April 29, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The United States on Tuesday signed a $1.95 billion agreement with US pharma giant Pfizer and Germany's BioNTech for 100 million doses of their experimental COVID-19 vaccine, part of an aggressive push to start immunizing Americans early next year. It is the biggest deal to date under Operation Warp Speed,… July 22, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" New coronavirus vaccine trial underway in the US and funded by the Bill Gates Foundation uses 'skin-deep' shots instead of jabs into the muscle, which is typically used. The pinch should feel like a simple skin test, a researcher told one of the 40 volunteers lying on an exam table… April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"