Tech firm, 21st Century Technologies, has teamed with global digital monetization company Centili, to achieve a sustainable digital transformation of goods and services in Africa. CEO of 21st Century Technologies, Wale Ajisebutu, said the partnership was fuelled by a passion for technology and guided by the firm belief that Africa can be better connected to the digital world. According to him, ”Our partnership with Centili will bring digital transformation to Africa which many economic sectors deserve. More importantly, it helps create a sense of focus and determination to succeed. “Our combined experiences and knowledge of technology is legendary. I have always believed that one of the key elements of success is partnering with esteemed organisations such as Centili, principally to leverage on core competencies and build the most advanced digital services in Africa. “Remember that 21st Century Technologies is a regional powerhouse with huge infrastructure and a mission to provide world-class solutions to our valued customers through highly motivated talent and strategic alliances,” he added. The partnership creates a solution that will propel 21st Century Technologies to become the number-one aggregator VAS business operator on the continent. It sees both companies creating digital services that will revolutionise everything from online retail to gaming, logistics to financial services, e-commerce to entertainment. It will as well enable the creation of affordable access to technology and information as the partners are building new products and services that will solve complex problems for key industries such as healthcare and aviation, among others. VANGUARD 21st Century Technologies Limited has announced its entry into the VMware Cloud Provider programme, with its SMART Digital Platform. November 3, 2017 In "News" By Emeka Aginam Students, teachers and learning institutions in Ethiopia will soon be transforming the way they learn and teach through ICT as the technology giant, Microsoft and the Ministry of Education in Ethiopia have signed an Education Transformation Agreement. The agreement, driven by Microsoft’s shape the future initiative, would… March 29, 2016 In "Technology" By Prince Osuagwu Chief Software Architect and CEO of Simplex Business Solutions Limited, Femi Adeniyi, is an Information Technology,  IT consultant with over 25 years of cognate experience in using IT as a business management tool. He is specialized in programming/software development. He has designed applications that presently provide solutions… January 9, 2020 In "Technology"