Ekiti State gets new University as the state’s House of Assembly on Tuesday passed the bill for the upgrading of the State College of Education to University of Education, Science and Technology. The bill was passed through unanimous resolution at Tuesday’s plenary in Ado-Ekiti presided over by the Speaker, Mr Funminiyi Afuye. The passage of the bill followed the submission of the report of the House Committee on Education, Science and Technology headed by Mrs Kemi Balogun. According to the report, read by Balogun, the Transitional Provision of Section 38 would give room the existing students of the College of Education lkere-Ekiti after the effective date of this Law to complete their course of study as stipulated The report after been ratified by the Committee of the Whole House was read by the Clerk of the House, Mr Tola Esan and unanimously passed. The Executive bill was titled, “A Bill for a Law to provide for the Establishment, Incorporation, Constitution, Powers and Functions of the University of Education, Science and Technology, Ikere-Ekiti and Other Matters Therewith.” In an interview with newsmen shortly after plenary, the duo of the Speaker, Mr Funminiyi Afuye and Mr Tunde Idowu, Ikere Constituency, 2, APC thanked  Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi and members for the initiative and speedy passage of the bill. Afuye and Idowu, who hails from Ikere-Ekiti, in Ikere Local Government Area, assured that the new University of Education, Science and Technology would bring about social and economic development to Ikere-Ekiti, the state, Nigeria and the world at large. Earlier at Tuesday’s plenary, Under Matter of Urgent Public Importance, Chief Gboyega Aribisogan, Ikole Constituency 1, APC called the attention of the House to the gradual extinction of the Yoruba Language. He called the House to as a matter of advocacy and legislation, safe the Yoruba Language, which he described as the identity of Western Nigeria. Also, Mr Adeyemi Ajibade, Moba Constituency 1, APC Under Matter of Urgent Public Importance, drew the attention of the House to non -availability of telecommunications network in Osun-Ekiti. Ajibade called on the State Government to help prevail on the telecommunications network providers to extend their services to the community of over 30 thousand dwellers so that the people can access meaningful economic development. The Assembly later adjourned plenary to Monday, Oct.,5. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Ekiti House of Assembly on Tuesday passed the bill for the upgrading of the State College of Education to University of Education, Science and Technology. The bill was unanimously passed at Tuesday’s plenary in Ado-Ekiti, presided over by the Speaker, Mr Funminiyi Afuye. Also read: We encourage Nigerian youths… September 29, 2020 In "Education" The Ekiti State Government has proposed a life imprisonment bill for anyone found guilty of rape in the state. The Executive Bill is entitled: A Bill for a Law to Repeal the Ekiti Gender-Based Violence,(Prohibition) Law, 2011 and enact the Ekiti Gender-Based Violence, (Prohibition) Bill, 2019. NAN reports that the… October 3, 2019 In "News" Excited students of tertiary institutions in Ekiti State and other youths yesterday shut down Ado-Ekiti, capital of the state, to rally support for Governor Ayodele Fayose for having the courage to sign into Law on Monday,a bill handing out death sentence to students found guilty of being involved in cultism… November 21, 2017 In "Education"