Luis Suarez has been told to train alone by new manager Ronald Koeman just days after Lionel Messi made an incredible transfer u-turn and decided to stay at the club. Fresh reports from Spain have it that Koeman has just told Suarez to train alone with the club’s physio ahead of his rumored switch to Juventus. The Uruguayan was earlier notified by Koeman that he is no longer needed at the Spanish club, amid interests from several European clubs jostling for his services. Suarez earlier lamented the spate at which affairs of the club were being run and had told the club to let him know his fate. It was gathered that Serie A and Premier League clubs have been in contact with the Uruguayan hoping to seal a personal agreement. And he could be playing in Italy next season with reports that Juventus are planning a clever move to seal a deal with Spanish club Barcelona for the Uruguayan. Italian outlet Gianluca Di Marzio via Mirror claims that there are ongoing discussions between Barcelona and the Italian champions Juventus. It was gathered that just a little amount could be paid to the Spanish club in the form of a performance-based bonus. Although Suarez has been quiet all through what has been a ‘manic week’ at his club over a row with Messi who later handed in a transfer request. And despite all these, Suarez and Messi were captured together leaving a restaurant on Thursday night, August 27. However, the situation about Suarez’s exit is still not clear and he will wait for his lawyers to give their advice. Vanguard Luis Suarez has reportedly been told to leave Barcelona by new boss Ronald Koeman, with discussions set to take place with the Uruguayan’s lawyers over cancelling his contract. The 33-year-old has 12 months left on his current Nou Camp deal, with the club also possessing an option on an extra… August 26, 2020 In "Sports" Lionel Messi has submitted a request to leave Barcelona August 25, 2020 In "Sports" All eyes were on Luis Suarez as he trained with his Barcelona team-mates for the first time on Friday after getting the green light from the Court of Arbitration for Sport August 15, 2014 In "Sports"