Oba of Benin, Omo N’ Edo, Oba Ewuare 11, has congratulated the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki on his re-election for a second term in office. In a statement in Benin Tuesday signed by Mr. Frank Erhabor, Secretary to the Benin Traditional Council, the Benin Monarch sued for the peoples’ support for the governor in his developmental strides in other to move the State to the next level. He thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for ensuring that Edo election was free, fair and violent free The Benin monarch also thanked all candidates of the political parties for adhering to the advice for a violent free election giving to them during the peace meeting with them which has been widely acclaimed to have doused tension that was building up before the election. “The National Peace Committee headed by General Abdusalami Abubakar (rtd) is appreciated for the signing of the peace accord among the gubernatorial candidates thereafter. “Furthermore, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) headed by Prof. Mahmood Yakubu,is also commended for a successful and peaceful in Edo State”, he said. He also thanked security agencies for a job well done. Vanguard News Nigeria SEVERAL persons were, yesterday, injured as supporters of the two main political parties in the country, All Progressives Congress, APC, and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, clashed near the palace of the Oba of Benin when PDP governors, led by the Chairman of the PDP Campaign Council, Governor Nyesom Wike,… July 26, 2020 In "News" By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja The Founder of a non-profit making organization, One Love Foundation, OLF, Chief Patrick Eholor, Tuesday, demanded an apology from the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, who is the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, for the governorship election coming up 11 days… September 8, 2020 In "News" By Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City A group, Edo Equity Forum, EEF, and the Allied Peoples Movement, APM, has commended the Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo Oba Ewuare ll over his intervention in ensuring that all the political players in the Edo governorship election conduct themselves peacefully.… September 4, 2020 In "Edo Decides"