The member representing  Warri Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives, Hon.Thomas Ereyitomi has commended, the President Nigeria Football Federation, NFF, Mr. Amaju Pinnick for attracting the Federation of International Football Association, FIFA, to Ugborodo Community in Warri South-West Local Goverment Area  to construct  a word class international standard stadium to host matches in the riverine  communities in Delta state Ereyitomi said that  the construction of the international FIFA stadium in Ugborodo will encourage the peoples’ love for the round ladder game and give room for more development projects as well as open up the area to the international community to come watch matches and invest . The lawmaker further stated  that the construction of the  stadium in Ugborodo it will attract tourist , investors in oil and gas sector and open up opportunity in marine activities . Ereyitomi who is also the deputy chairman House of Representatives Committee , Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC assured the NFF Boss of his support while urging  others to take advantage of the peaceful environment in Warri Federal Constituency to invest In the Area. The Member representing Warri Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives Hon.Thomas Ereyitomi has congratulated children of Warri federal constituency as they join their counterpart in other parts of the country and across the world in celebrating children’s day 2020. May 27, 2020 In "News" The Member representing the Warri Federal Constituency at National Assembly Hon. Thomas Ereyitomi has condoled with the entire Koko community in Warri North local Government Area, Delta State over the demise of the Olare-Aja, (Oldest Man of Koko) Pa. Stephen Aganbi. March 25, 2020 In "News" The Member representing Warri Federal Constituency at House of Representatives Hon.Thomas Ereyitomi has congratulated Delta State governor Ifeanyi Okowa, on the occasion of his 5th anniversary as governor of the State. . May 29, 2020 In "News"