The Police Command in Borno, says it will not tolerate any form of protest capable of disrupting the “hard-earned peace in the state’’. DSP Edet Okon, the command spokesman, gave the warning in a statement on Tuesday in Maiduguri. Okon said that available information indicated that some groups were planning protests against the hike in fuel price, electricity tariff, working conditions of state civil servants, and the N-power programme. “In view of the above, the commissioner of Police Borno State, CP Mohammed Ndatsu Aliyu, wishes to state that such protest will not be condoned or by the command as this may sabotage efforts of the Federal and State Governments and that of the security agencies to ensure that the emerging peace and security in the state is sustained. “The command is using this opportunity to remind members of the public that there is a ban on public rallies and all forms of the procession in the state, and this ban, at the moment still subsist. “The command advises that all forms of grievances should be brought to the table for all parties to chew on. “It is pertinent to note that the organised labour in the State, via a press release dated 7th September 2020 and titled `The organized labour will not be distracted’ has disowned and frowned at any form of agitation/protest,’’ Okon said. He said based on the workers’ union position, any protest would be considered as an act of sabotage and a deliberate effort to breach the emerging peace and security in the state. “All prospective protesters are by this release warned to steer clear of Borno State and respect the laws of the land,’’ Okon said. Vanguard Sporadic gunshots rent the air in  Maiduguri, the Borno State capital yesterday as hundreds of mobile policemen deployed to the state to assist the military in the fight against Boko Haram took to the streets protesting non-payment of seven months allowances and promotion. July 3, 2018 In "Headlines" The Police Command in Borno said four Boko Haram terrorists were killed by Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) strapped to their bodies in Mainari Kanuri and Shua villages in Konduga Local Government Area of the state. May 4, 2018 In "News" The Borno Police Command on Tuesday confirmed the arrest of a female suicide bomber at the Bakassi Internally Displaced (IDPs) camp in Maiduguri. April 17, 2018 In "News"