MANY teachers have had to grapple with the impact of the unprecedented coronavirus disease, COVID-19, which made schools all over the world to shutdown activities and adopt the online form of learning. But, having realised that online learning comes with its challenges and may not be sustainable especially in communities that lack adequate infrastructure to support it, in addition to the short attention span of students/pupils during online learning, returning to the classroom now could be the only way to secure the future and salvage the education sector from total collapse. After six months of shutdown, the Federal Government recently approved a phased reopening of schools. This was made known by the National Coordinator of the Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19, Dr. Sani Aliyu, when he said: “For educational institutions, which include day-care, primary, secondary and tertiary institutions, educational institutions should begin the process of working towards potentially reopening within this phase. “However, we strongly recommend that states conduct a risk assessment to ensure all schools are at a level of compliance and create a monitoring mechanism to assess, create and monitor this level of preparedness. “Meanwhile, all day-cares and educational institutions are to remain closed to in-classes until this level of risk is assessed. And if there will be opening of schools, it must be staged and preferably carried out in phases to ensure that this does not pose a risk to the general public and in particular to vulnerable groups that might end up getting infected by students going back home.” Nonetheless, states have the prerogative to fix a suitable date for resumption, for instance, Lagos state Government announced recently that tertiary institutions are to reopen on September 14, while primary and secondary schools may reopen tentatively on September 21. Still, we are faced with a myriad of questions and concerns like, what are the safety measures in place ahead of resumption? How will the school management handle anxiety and ensure both students and teachers are productive? What are the plans to decongest populated schools? What are the testing protocols for schools? How will cases of students with underlying health challenges be handled? among others. Meanwhile, Nigeria’s COVID-19 curve is far from flattening as we have recorded 54,743 cases and counting. But, sadly, some people believe that the curve is flattening as a result of several measures implemented by the government such as wearing face mask, observing social distancing and adhering to the nationwide curfew. In actual fact, the reduction in new COVID-19 infections being witnessed is as a result of the decline in the number of samples collected across the states. This was stated in August by the Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, during a briefing in Abuja. Amid these, the United Nations Children’s Fund, UNICEF, and the World Health Organisation, WHO, have urged governments in Africa to promote safe reopening of schools as prolonged closure may lead to poor nutrition, stress, increased exposure to violence and exploitation, childhood pregnancies, and overall challenges in mental development of children due to reduced interaction related to school closures. Both organisations also emphasised the need to provide quick solutions to handwashing in schools, such as a tap, bucket and soap because only 47 per cent of schools have access to basic sanitation services in sub-Saharan Africa according to a WHO and UNICEF report assessing progress on drinking water, sanitation and hygiene in schools between 2000 and 2019. It is, therefore, noteworthy that some schools have failed in observing the COVID-19 guidelines, this includes many public schools across the country with a low level of compliance when they reopened for the West African School Certificate examination, WASCE. Even though the Federal Ministry of Education has declared that it is mulling the transfer of students from some of its over-populated unity colleges to others with lesser students, there is only so much it can achieve if COVID-19 guidelines, safety protocols, necessary arrangements had not been made in schools ahead of resumption. These and more are the concerns of not only parents but also academic unions and associations. Ultimately, as schools reopen, there is a need to create and ensure a safe and secure learning environment for both the teachers and students. It is also pertinent to develop a strategic health protocol within the school system to monitor and minimise the transmission rate of the virus as well as setting up a platform where students who may be experiencing trauma, anxiety or any mental health issue could seek and get help. Ojebisi, a social commentator, wrote from Lagos, via oluwatosin.ojebisi@gmail.com VANGUARD Boarding schools, churches, mosques, event centres, others remain shut Warns against illegal testing centres Curfew remains 10pm to 4am Selected state workers still to work from home By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has announced the resumption of both public and private schools beginning from August 3,… July 3, 2020 In "News" Shina Abubakar Osogbo In a bid to secure the safety of students ahead of school resumption, the Osun State Government has trained 1,620 teachers to ensure safety and conducive learning environment. Statement issued by the Press Officer, State Universal Basic Education Board, Sofiu Abdulganiyu stated that the board's Chairman, Ajibola… August 22, 2020 In "Education" As tertiary schools are set to reopen in Lagos State, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has urged the management of the schools to put in place student-friendly policies to cushion the effects of the pandemic. Mr Olawale Kappo, South West Coordinator of NANS,  and Mr Rasheed Ogunsanya, Chairman,… August 31, 2020 In "Education"