Guinea’s ruling party on Monday confirmed months of speculation that President Alpha Conde will seek a third term in office, a possibility that had already sparked deadly mass protests. The news came after the 82-year-old president pushed through a constitutional reform in March that critics had already argued was designed to allow him to run for office again in the October 18 election. “President Alpha Conde will indeed be our candidate in the presidential election,” said the statement from the Rally of the Guinean People (RPG), read out on televsion. The party had formally nominated him to run again back in August, but Conde had made no formal response. Under Guinea’s constitution, presidents may only serve two terms. Conde was elected president in 2010 and again in 2015. But according to analysts, the new constitution could reset the presidential term counter and enable him to run a third time — a view now confirmed by the RPG. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Guinea's highly-anticipated presidential election will take place on October 18, President Alpha Conde announced on national television on Tuesday. The move comes after the 82-year-old president pushed through a constitutional reform in March that critics argued was a ploy to allow him to run for office a third time. The… August 12, 2020 In "News" Guinea's President Alpha Conde on Friday announced a "slight postponement" of Sunday's referendum on whether to adopt a new constitution, after months of protests sparked by fears the poll is a ruse to keep him in power "It is due to our national and regional responsibilities that we have accepted… February 29, 2020 In "Foreign" Guinea's opposition on Saturday called for the cancellation of a referendum on changing the constitution, as fresh protests against President Alpha Conde's government broke out in the capital Conakry. Conde on Friday announced the referendum, planned for Sunday, would be postponed -- possibly for two weeks -- following growing domestic… February 29, 2020 In "Foreign"