Former governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose, and a strong critic of Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari, has bared his mind on the latest increase in petrol price, stating that he warned Nigerians on the expectations of having Buhari as president during the countdown to the 2015 presidential polls. Fayose in a statement on his twitter handle, @GovAyoFayose, also questioned the position of members of the Save Nigeria group who protested against the fuel price increase during the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan in 2012. The former governor, who also queried the rationale for the increase, wondered the justification for the increase despite the prevailing drop in world oil price. He said: “Petrol is now N151.56. The increment was made when other countries are adopting measures to reduce the effects of COVID-19 lockdown on their citizens. “Just in case those who led the Save Nigeria protests across Nigeria during the PDP government of Jonathan are not aware. I warned.” Vanguard can confirm that the price of petrol has been increased to N151.56 per litre. This was affirmed by the Pipelines and Product Marketing Company (PPMC), a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC in a statement on Wednesday. The statement read; “Please be informed that a new product price adjustment has been effected on our payment platform. “To this end, the price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) is now one hundred and fifty-one naira, fifty-six kobo (N151.56k) per litre.” The change in price will take effect from September 2, 2020. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Ayodele Fayose Despite his electoral promise to reduce petrol pump price from the N87 per litre that he met it, President Muhammadu Buhari increased the price to N145! With this increment, Buhari has further impoverished Nigerians. Nigerians should be reminded that on April 14, 2015, President Buhari’s ally and former… May 24, 2016 In "News" Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State, Wednesday, described the recent increment in the pump price of petrol as one of the gifts of President Muhammadu Buhari to Nigerians to celebrate his one year in office, saying the president’s one year in office as “a colossal waste.” May 25, 2016 In "News" The Ekiti State Governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose has again condemned the federal government over its nonchalant attitude towards ending the fuel scarcity being experienced across the country, calling for immediate resignation of President Muhammadu Buhari as the minister of petroleum. December 22, 2017 In "News"