The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God(RCCG) Pastor Enoch Adeboye has said that people who were above 70 years needed to check their salvation if they were still afraid of death. Adeboye said this at the first Sunday Thanksgiving of the RCCG new year calender, held at the headquaters in Lagos on Sunday. “Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, old people were advised to stay at home and not come to church which is a good advice. “But if you are over 70 years of age and you are still afraid of death, then you should check your salvation,”he said. Adeboye, however, declared that no one would die, adding that everyone would live to declare the word of God. He added that the Almighty God would turn down coronavirus, adding that no virus would come near the children of God. “God will give us total victory on any virus. The Lord who has kept us to see September will keep us to see the new year,” he prayed. In his sermon, Adeboye told the congregation to always praise the Lord because He had done a lot for the country and everyone in particular. “When we remember some people we grew up with are dead, some are in prison, sick, and we are still alive, then we should have reasons to praise the Lord. “When we know we have the Almighty God, the conqueror of any virus by our side, then we have every reason to thank God,” he said. He added that the Almighty God would never the people. “Everyone should continue to praise God for life,” he said. He urged those that had not given their lives to Christ to do so for them to get God’s blessings. (NAN) vanguardngr.com MIXED reactions, yesterday, continued to trail Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye’s appointment of a National Overseer for the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, for Nigeria as part of moves to key into the FRCN law. . January 9, 2017 In "News" Jos - The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, has advised ministers of God to practice the sermons they preach at home because their children are watching. May 9, 2015 In "News" MILLIONS of Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, members across the globe, yesterday celebrated the 72nd birthday of the church’s General Overseer, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye with high pitched gospel music, dancing and prayers for long life and divine strength. March 3, 2014 In "News"