The IMF on Wednesday approved the release of another $1 billion in lending for Angola as its economy struggles with the Covid-19 downturn and global drop in crude prices. The Washington-based crisis lender also increased by $765 million the size of the three-year aid program for the southern African nation to help it deal with the pandemic’s impact on the economy, the IMF said in a statement. Facing high debt levels and inflation, Angola, one of the largest producers of crude in Africa, reached an agreement with the IMF in December 2018 on a $3.7 billion Extended Fund Facility. The latest disbursement brings to $2.5 billion the total released. Angola has been hard hit by slumping oil prices since the coronavirus pandemic hit, caused by a global slowdown in demand and a price war between major crude producers. The IMF in July projected Angola would see GDP shrink by 4.0 per cent this year, its fifth straight year of economic contraction. “The Angolan authorities remain committed to sound policies under the IMF-supported program despite a deteriorated external environment due to the COVID-19 pandemic, including negative impacts on public health, social protection, the budget and public debt,” IMF Deputy Managing Director Antoinette Sayeh said in a statement. “The authorities adopted a conservative supplementary budget for 2020, taking measures to increase non-oil revenue, and reining in non-essential expenditure,” she said. “Despite the crisis, fiscal consolidation will continue, while creating space for adequate spending on health and social safety nets.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Angola will ask the International Monetary Fund for a $4.5-billion (3.8-billion-euro) loan, highlighting the financial dire straits facing the major oil exporter even though global crude prices have recovered considerably. August 29, 2018 In "Business" Africa’s oil-producing nations have not been spared the impact of the global decision to reduce oil output. About 14 countries in sub-Saharan Africa produce oil, which accounts for most of their annual export income. Crude oil prices rose marginally on Friday (May 1) as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries… May 6, 2020 In "Business" --Calls for suspension of debt payments By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA - THE Organized labour in Nigeria has expressed displeasure over the exclusion of Nigeria among the 25 poor countries benefitting from the debt relief services by the International Monetary Fund, IMF. The generosity of the IMF, was to help the… April 14, 2020 In "News"