A Russian military hacking group that was caught meddling in the 2016 presidential race has shifted tactics ahead of the November election, Microsoft said Thursday. Hackers in China and Iran have also stepped up efforts to obtain password information for people involved in the campaigns of President Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden, the computer giant said. The Russian group  which Microsoft calls Strontium, but which is also known by names including “Fancy Bear” and APT28  “launched credential harvesting attacks against tens of thousands of accounts at more than 200 organizations” between September 2019 and June 2020,” according to a blog post by the Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center. More recently, the hackers “targeted 6,912 accounts belonging to 28 organizations” just between August 19 and Sept. 3, the MSTIC said. Those organizations, located in both the US and the UK, are “directly involved in political elections” and the hackers appear to be laying the groundwork for “future surveillance or intrusion operations,” the MSTIC said. “None of these accounts were successfully compromised,” it added. Fancy Bear has been implicated in Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election, with 12 military intelligence officers indicted for allegedly hacking the emails of the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton. But unlike in 2016, when the Russian hackers “relied heavily upon spear phishing”  which uses fraudulent emails to obtain confidential information  the recent attacks involve “a different approach, namely, brute-force/password-spray tooling,” according to Microsoft. NY Post Vanguard Microsoft has disabled dozens of websites that North Korean hackers used to steal personal information from Americans and others, the tech giant said. A federal court order allowed Microsoft to take control of 50 domains that a hacker group known as “Thallium” used to launch cyberattacks on government workers, university… January 2, 2020 In "Technology" On Friday, Microsoft disclosed that it had found evidence that a group of hackers originating from Iran attempted to access email accounts belonging to a 2020 presidential candidate. In its blog post announcing the discovery, Microsoft according to The Verge report declines to name the targeted presidential candidate, but it… October 5, 2019 In "News" Thousands of Russian-linked social media accounts have launched a coordinated effort to spread alarm about the new coronavirus, disrupting global efforts to fight the epidemic, US officials say. The disinformation campaign promotes unfounded conspiracy theories that the United States is behind the COVID-19 outbreak, in an apparent bid to damage… February 22, 2020 In "Foreign"