Ghana’s economy shrank 3.2 per cent in the second quarter for the first time in 37 years as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, the country’s chief statistician said Wednesday. The West African nation of 30 million inhabitants imposed a three-week lockdown in parts of the country, including the capital Accra, in March to curb the spread of the virus. The country has officially declared 45,655 coronavirus cases and 294 deaths. Chief statistician Samuel Kobina Annim told reporters in Accra the lockdowns crippled businesses and hurt revenues. “Even after the restrictions have been lifted, many businesses across sectors have continued to close down,” he said. For the first time since 1983, when the country suffered a devastating drought, “Ghana’s economy has seen a contraction of 3.2 percent compared with a growth rate of 5.7 per cent in the same quarter in 2019,” Annim said. Ghana, a beacon of hope and stability in a turbulent region, is a major producer and exporter of gold, oil and cocoa. Close to 50,000 firms in the manufacturing sector were directly hit by the restrictions, while the hospitality sector has recorded the highest dip in sales, by 76 percent compared to the same period a year ago, Annim said. The government statistician was however optimistic that the economy would bounce back once the right measures were put in place. “It is possible that we’re going to see a reversal in the contraction we are seeing,” he said. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Ghana’s economy grew by 8.5 per cent in 2017 – the fastest rate in five years – mainly due to increased oil and gas production, the country’s statistics office said on Wednesday. April 11, 2018 In "Business" Ghana became the first African country on Thursday to introduce vaccines against pneumococcal disease and rotavirus at the same time in a bid to fight leading causes of the world's two biggest childhood killers - pneumonia and diarrhoea. April 27, 2012 In "News" Nana Akufo-Addo, fifth time contender for Ghana’s presidency is leading in the early results so far declared in the presidential and parliamentary elections held Wednesday. December 8, 2016 In "News"