The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) says it has outlined four cardinal focus for downstream operations in its bid to continue to enable business and create opportunities in the oil and gas sector. A statement signed by Mr Paul Osu, Head, Public Affairs, DPR  on Thursday said the agency’s Director, Mr Sarki Auwalu, made this known during a visit of members of the Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association of Nigeria (DAPPMAN) to DPR in Lagos on Wednesday. Auwalu listed the four focus areas as quality for product assurance and customer satisfaction; quantity for transparency, value for money and consumer protection; safety for personnel and assets and public safety as well as Integrity for investment protection and business continuity. He said that DPR would continue to partner with DAPPMAN to achieve national aspirations for the downstream sector. According to him, this include price freedom, optimum petroleum products distribution network, petroleum products supply sufficiency and curbing of petroleum products cross border leakages. He said that with the Ministerial declaration of 2020 as the” Year -of – Gas”,  a new world of alternative fuels and investment opportunities has been created. Auwalu encouraged DAPPMAN executives to avail themselves of these opportunities and partner with DPR to enable value creation for investors and government. He said:  “DPR has developed a Gas Business Incentives and Support Programme (GBISP) to drive gas expansion and penetration. ”This include key strategic initiatives such as implementation of the gas network code programme to encourage gas base industries (GBI’s) and support for duty waivers consideration for equipment, tools and materials for downstream gas facilities. “It also include streamlining registration for Liquefied Petroleum Gas resellers and the ongoing gas commercialisation programme being put in place to achieve the GBISP. In her remarks, the Chairman of DAPPMAN, Mrs Winifred Akpani, commended the DPR for its robust regulatory initiatives and engagements with stakeholders in the oil and gas sector which had created the enabling environment for their businesses. She said that DAPPMAN would continue to provide support for  government policies especially in its drive for price freedom in the downstream sector. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) says it is working to ensure that only trucks that scale integrity tests and have good tracking system are deployed for petroleum haulage on Nigerian roads. October 24, 2019 In "News" SINCE 2009, the one of the major occurrence that has become almost a recurring development in the Petroleum Sector is change in leadership. As the new helmsman Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR; Mr. Augustine Olorunsola prepares for his role as an industry regulator, Clara Nwachukwu writes that the challenges are… November 29, 2011 In "Energy" Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has assured petroleum products consumers across the country not to engage in panic buying in the countdown to depot shutdown by Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association of Nigeria (DAPPMAN) from Monday. December 10, 2018 In "Business"