The Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, has condemned the siege by police officers to the hotel Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, lodged in Benin City, the Edo State capital, describing the action as a serious threat to democracy. PANDEF youth leader, Chief Vincent Oyibode, reacting to the siege, called on the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to,  “as a matter of urgency,  order the withdrawal of the over 300 policemen.” “We are worried about the danger this undemocratic action of the police will cause to democracy in Nigeria. ” The police laid siege to the hotel of the Chairman of the PDP National Campaign Council for the Edo Governorship election, Gov Wike, who is on an official assignment while his counterpart, Gov Umar Ganduje of Kano State,  who occupies the same position for his party the APC and Governor  Hope Uzodinma of Imo State are all in Benin, Edo State carrying out their assignment for the APC without any molestation or intimidation. “The action of the police is unacceptable and unconstitutional,” he said. Vanguard ...says siege on PDP Govs a breach by Nigerian police The Rivers State Senate caucus has cautioned the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu that on no account should anything happen to the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike who is on an official assignment to Edo State. This was… September 18, 2020 In "Edo Decides" Victor Ogunyinka The hotel where Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, is lodging in Benin, Edo State capital is under siege by over 300 policemen, People Democratic Party (PDP) Chairman, Rivers chapter, Akawor Desmond, has alleged. A thread posted on the Twitter handle of the Rivers State governor, Friday evening and… September 18, 2020 In "Edo elections" PORT HARCOURT — UNTIL  last night, leaders and members of the Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, are still at a complete loss over what struck them last Thursday at the “Garden City,” Port-Harcourt, Rivers State, where they converged for their fourth general assembly. October 31, 2017 In "News"