India has banned another set of 118 apps from China’s technology giants, including Tencent’s wildly popular game PUBG Mobile Lite, the country’s search engine leader Baidu and online payments giant Ant Group’s platform Alipay, as tensions escalated on the nations’ disputed border. The apps are “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India” as well as “security and public order”, the country’s ministry of electronics & IT said in a statement on Wednesday. “This move will safeguard the interests” of Indian mobile and Internet users, it said. India and China relations have entered a critical new phase following fresh conflict along their disputed Himalayan border after multiple rounds of high-level military talks failed to end the months-long standoff. The defence ministry in New Delhi said on Monday its soldiers were able to stop a push by Chinese troops to claim more ground late on Saturday in violation of existing agreements. The banned versions of PUBG included PUBG Mobile Lite, a leaner version of the app suited to inexpensive smartphones, as well as PUBG Mobile Nordic Map: Livik, a newer game played on a Nordic terrain. Over June and July, India had banned more than 100 Chinese apps including TikTok, the much-downloaded short-video app from ByteDance, and Alibaba Group’s mobile browser, UC Browser. The move followed mid-June border skirmishes, which killed 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops. Tech Central Vanguard India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi issued a new warning to China over deadly border tensions on Saturday, using his most important speech of the year to promise to build a stronger military. With talks on easing a military build-up in their Himalayan border region at a stalemate, Modi told an… August 15, 2020 In "Foreign" Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has deleted his account on Sina Weibo, China’s answer to Twitter, an Indian government source and the company said, as tensions between the two countries continue to simmer over a border skirmish. Since posting on Sina Weibo the first time in 2015 during a visit… July 5, 2020 In "News" Technology Company, “Google” has said it plans to invest 10 billion dollars in India in the coming years, as reports revealed that the country is most favourable destination amid the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. This was made known in a report made available to the Newsmen by the Indian High Commission… July 18, 2020 In "News"