The Performing Musicians Employers Association of Nigeria (PMAN) on Tuesday congratulated Nigeria’s King of Juju Music,  Sunday Adegeye, popularly known as King Sunny Ade (KSA), on his 74th birthday. Mr Casmir Obi, National President of PMAN, commenting on the 74 Birthday of KSA, said in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday that music industry was grateful to God for adding another year to KSA’s life. Obi described KSA as a music icon, whose exhibition on various instruments, had made juju music unique, even beyond the shores of Nigeria. He said that PMAN would always celebrate him. “A very big congratulations to our own KSA, who is a year older today; we are happier because he is still very agile and bubbling at 74. “KSA is a multi-instrumentalist, and we are proud of him, talk of any musical instrument, guitar, vibraphone, clarinet, talking drum, a tenor guitar he is there with his melodious voice. “The PMAN join his family, friends and the nation at large to celebrate KSA, we pray that God will continue to keep him and grant him good health to mark more years,” Obi said. According to him, KSA remained one of the most influential musicians, haven spent five decades in the music industry with about 120 albums, including Merciful God, Congratulations, Ja Funmi, Aiye Nreti Eleya mi, and Odu. NAN reports that the Ondo born juju maestro is a Member of the Order of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (MON), two-time Grammy Award Nominee, and holder of an AFRIMA Award. Vanguard News The gracefully ageing Juju music legend and maestro, Chief Sunday Adeniyi Adegeye a.k.a King Sunny Ade (KSA) has encouraged musicians in the country to forecast whenever they are planning to compose songs and put into consideration how relevant such music will be in the next 20 years. September 24, 2016 In "Showtime People" On September 22, 2016, King Sunny Ade will be joining the league of the septuagenarians, 70, and it is not by an accident of fate that he will not be having a quiet party with his family alone. By virtue of his status and his monumental achievements, it is inevitable… September 9, 2016 In "Music" By AYO ONIKOYI Juju music legend and one of Africa’s greatest music maestros, Chief Sunday Adeniyi Adegeye popularly known as King Sunny Ade has pledged to dole out his best performance during the forthcoming Glo Evergreen Series, the KSA Edition in Lagos on February 28. “The Glo Evergreen show coming… February 8, 2014 In "Showtime People"