With the increase in growth of digital payment transactions in Nigeria rising to 10.3 trillion in January 2020, according to the Nigerian Interbank Settlement System, NIBBS, a Technology Company, Capricorn Digital Limited, owners of Baxi, has kicked-off a campaign to deepen financial inclusion to at least 70 percent of Nigerian communities. According to the company, the campaign tagged: “Baxi2.0” is   to promote the empowerment of individuals, retail merchants and small and medium enterprises, SMEs across Nigerian communities. Baxi platform, through its agent network of individuals, small business owners, merchants and large corporations provide seamless access to payment of bills and services. Baxi 2.0. is an app that challenges the array of digital payment platforms in the country by having more unique features and exciting value-driven benefits. The company said Back 2.0 will boost the economic empowerment in Nigerian communities in times like these where the job climate is on the low due to the corona virus crises around the globe. It also noted that it will engineer growth in digital payment activities. CEO, Capricorn Digital, Degbola Abudu, said “Baxi 2.0 is geared towards empowering the Nigerian masses and is also in alignment with the company’s vision which is to have a retail presence in every street and a digital presence in every household in Nigeria. He said: “Baxi 2.0, an upgrade to Baxi, therefore stems from the idea to build a more rewarding payment platform that not only enables efficient and easy payment of bills and services but also integrates more people into the digital payment space by introducing features and benefits that are valuable and drives individuals and small businesses who seek to be financially included, dependent and entrepreneurial to be empowered to do so” he added. VANGUARD As further evidence of its commitment to pushing the boundaries of digital payments and creating solutions that positively impact consumers, fast rising digital distribution and Solutions Company, Capricorn Digital Limited, has scaled up the electricity bill payments offering on its payment platform. February 1, 2018 In "Business" Thousands of individuals and businesses, especially the unbanked and underbanked, would now be able to conveniently make payments to the Federal and State Governments and a wide array of billers and merchants in Nigeria. They would also be able to make interbank transfers for personal and business purposes through web… May 4, 2020 In "News" The rise of digital payments and the global trend to move away from cash has meant the development of an increasingly competitive payments sector February 14, 2017 In "Interview"