As part of its measures to excite Nigerians, e-commerce platform for fairly used cars, Betacar, has said it is giving any customer who purchases car from its platform this month one-month worth of fuel. Betacar is a company that offers an integrated approach to used car buying. It allows customers to search and learn about the variety of car options online. Marketing Manager of the company, Ifeoluwa Dare-Johnson, said the gesture of the free fuel is to appreciate the company’s customers as it’s marks one year anniversary. Also, the Company’s CEO, Mr. Lou Odunuga, said the company has recorded exciting growth in customer base one year after it came on board. He said: “Betacar has raised the bar in the Nigerian automotive industry, providing car buyers with quality, transparency, and installment payment options to improve affordability. “We provide a warranty on all cars. This is unique in the Nigerian used car market. It also gives customers full peace of mind when buying cars from our platform. He explained that Betacar for the local market includes- 200-points vehicle quality checks on every car. Odunuga added: “Our website also features Betacar financing, a fintech product that allows salary earners and structured business owners to buy quality certified Tokunbo cars and pay over a period of 12-24 months.” Vanguard Buying a car can be an expensive and stressful experience, especially in Lagos. Thanks to Technology, a lot of the associated stress has been lifted. However, there are still major concerns among prospective car owners; some of which are pricing, quality, and durability of cars available in the marketplace. Despite… September 2, 2019 In "News" A new digital car dealership platform, an integrated e-commerce automotive platform named 'Betacar' has been launched in Lagos. According to the CEO, Mr Lou Odunuga, 'Betacar' comes with massive Silicon Valley experience. September 14, 2019 In "Entertainment" LEADING automobile marketing company in Nigeria, CFAO Motors, has launched three new Mitsubishi models into the market. May 6, 2014 In "Motoring"