Former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ghali Na’Abba on Tuesday said that the South-East should select their best and present them for selection in the 2023 Presidential race. The former speaker in a chat disclosed that the South East has enough competent hands that can run the affairs of Nigeria. Na’Abba who spoke when the National Political Equity Movement, NPEM, led by its convener,  Chibuzor Okereke paid him a working visit. He said “some of my best friends are from the southeast geo-political zone that are well endowed and readily available to support me anytime. Na’Abba who went memory lane said “in 1999, the Late Alex Ekwueme would have emerged our presidential candidate if not for the strong influence of the military because we believed in him. “As at today, there’s an array of competent Igbo leaders in the mould of Senator Ken Nnamani, Pius Anyim and several others from the South East that can conveniently run our political affairs. “If they bring incompetent hands it may spoil their chance in 2023, if they bring good hands  I will support the South East. Earlier, in his remarks, convener of the movement, Chibuzor Okereke had thanked the former speaker for his support as his lecturer and a true fighter for justice and equity. He said” we are here to thank you and gather more from your fountain of knowledge. Vanguard News Nigeria Former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ghali Umar Na'Abba has blamed the renewed agitation for the creation of Biafra on the failure of past governors of the South-East region to impact positively on the region. December 27, 2015 In "News" A former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Alhaji Ghali Umar Na’Abba, has said that clause 86 of the Electoral Bill will curb god-fatherism in the political parties. November 21, 2010 In "News" National Leadership of the All Progressives Congress, APC formerly received the defecting former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Alhaji Ghali Umar N'Abba into its fold yesterday, conferring on him automatic membership of the Board of Trustees of the party. March 18, 2015 In "News"