AS the 90th posthumous birthday of the former Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Chief Bola Ige (SAN) was held in Ibadan Sunday, his son, Architect Muyiwa Ige said his father was killed out of jealousy. He said this during the service held in honour of the deceased politician who was murdered by yet-to-be-disclosed hoodlums at St. Anne’s Church, Molete, Ibadan. Muyiwa said, “A lot of his peers didn’t like him because they could not understand young people which he did. But, that was the essence of Bola Ige, and it was part of the envy that ate into the souls of some of those who didn’t like him. “Nonetheless, that was their problem. Bola Ige came to this world, did his bit, and his legacy still lives on.” On what politics used to be, Muyiwa Ige said: “The conservatives knew themselves, while the progressives knew themselves. Now, you can’t even differentiate between A and B. There is cross-carpeting going on every day. Consistency is not there”. “There is also a leadership vacuum and so, we need to go back and begin to study what they did well positively in their days and try to enhance that and begin to ensure that there is a vibrant mentoring programme, especially for our youths. There are great leaders out there that we can still point to that can support young people”, he concluded. Vanguard Twelve years after the assassination of the former Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Chief Bola Ige, by yet to be identified gunmen, the family of the late politician declared yesterday that though they had left his killers to God for divine judgment, it would be difficult to forget the… March 12, 2014 In "News" 10 years after the gruesome murder of Chief Ajibola Ige, no person has been successfully prosecuted in the typically Nigerian manner of unresolved high profile murders. This is the story of the murder of Bola Ige and the issues surrounding it. December 18, 2011 In "Special Report" President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, directed the Acting Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, to reopen investigation into the unresolved murder of former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Chief Bola Ige, and ex-Deputy National Chairman, South-South, of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Aminosari Dokubo, and fish out the perpetrators. July 18, 2016 In "Headlines"