More than 200 Senegalese soldiers returning from The Gambia where they served in a regional security force have tested positive for Covid-19, Senegal’s army and health ministry said Tuesday. An earlier army statement had said 100 members of the more than 600-strong contingent had contracted the virus. The 208 soldiers are staying at an army “hotel” in the village of Guereo, some 60 kilometres (35 miles) south of the capital Dakar, an army PR official told AFP. The facility hosts troops who test positive for Covid-19 but are asymptomatic, he said. The Gambia, a finger of territory surrounded by Senegal save for its Atlantic coast, has confirmed 3,428 cases of the disease and 105 deaths. Senegal, for its part, has declared 14,529 cases and 298 deaths. The Senegalese troops were part of a West African force first deployed in January 2017. They were there to assure a smooth transition of power after outgoing president Yahya Jammeh refused to concede defeat at the ballot box to Adama Barrow. Its mission has since been prolonged at Barrow’s request, despite Jammeh’s departure into exile. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Scores of Senegalese soldiers deployed to neighbouring The Gambia have tested positive for coronavirus, a Senegalese army official said on Thursday. The soldiers are part of a West African peacekeeping force deployed to The Gambia in January 2017 after the country's former dictator, Yahya Jammeh, refused to hand over power… September 11, 2020 In "Foreign" The Senegalese army says about 100 of its soldiers from the peacekeeping mission in The Gambia have tested positive for coronavirus. The military contingent composed of 600 soldiers were returning home. They have been quarantined in Toubacouta, on Senegalese territory near the border with The Gambia, as a precautionary measure.… September 11, 2020 In "Foreign" Embattled out-going Gambian President, Yahaya Jammeh has stayed put on the country's Presidency seat even after the elapse of the deadline given to him to vacate the seat by both the ECOWAS body and the Senegalese government. However, the Gambian army chief has said he would not engage his men… January 19, 2017 In "News"