 First Bank of Nigeria Limited has announced that it’s Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, has been honoured with the Forbes  Best of Africa  Award. The award is for business personalities with a record of creating and building great global businesses that have made far-reaching contributions to the development of Africa.  Speaking at a virtual award presentation organized by First Bank in conjunction with the Foreign Investment Network (FIN), Adeduntan dedicated the award to the bank’s customers and “to the Board, Management and Staff of First Bank of Nigeria Limited and all our Subsidiaries, for their cooperation in delivering the best to our esteemed customers and shareholders, and ensuring that we give back to the society in which we have sustained our business for over 126 years.”  Forbes had stated: “Adesola Adeduntan believes strongly in the importance of doing well by doing good. In March 2020 he spoke at the Edinburgh School of Business about financial institutions’ role as drivers of financial inclusion.  “In his leadership role at First Bank of Nigeria Limited (FirstBank), Adeduntan is part of a 126 year legacy of sustained development-oriented services. FirstBank is the region’s foremost financial inclusion services provider.”  FIRST Bank of Nigeria Limited has been named the first financial institution in Nigeria and the West-Africa sub-region to issue 10 million cards to customers across the country. This makes FirstBank the second bank in Africa to achieve this feat. October 16, 2017 In "Business" THE Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has rewarded FirstBank’s efforts in combating electronic fraud with two of the three awards up for grab in the keenly contested Nigerian Electronic Fraud Forum (NeFF) 2017 awards. January 1, 2018 In "Business" FIRST Bank of Nigeria Limited was recently presented with the Oil and Gas Banker of Year 2019 award at the Patrons’ Dinner and Industry Awards  of the Nigeria International Petroleum Summit March 2, 2020 In "Business"