Dr Franklin Adejuwon, a former Minister in the Ministry of Agriculture and natural resources, described those behind the proposed bill on the acquisition of inland waters and their banks by the federal government as having an ulterior motive. Speaking with Vanguard, Adejuwon called on the proponents of the bill to take into consideration the political, moral, economic, constitutional sensitivity and implications to the entire country especially to the south-west and south-east of the nation. “Very sad indeed the proposed bill on the acquisition of inland waters and their banks by the federal government, having been rejected twice by the house of assembly has resurfaced again. Why the desperation if there is no ulterior motive behind the enactment of such a bill? “Nigerians have cried out and have appealed to those in power to desist from provoking a dangerous situation capable of sparkling disdain in our polity and provoking unwanted unrest. “The proponents of this bill which is basically the government should hasten to take into consideration the political, moral, economic, constitutional sensitivity and implications to the entire country especially to the south-west and south-east of the nation which lye conspicuously within the geographical zone of the pursuit of this bill. “Could this be a deliberate clandestine ambition to rewrite the constitution of the country by damaging or even annulling the fabric of our nation as a federation and returning us to the colonial status quo? Adejuwon, who once served as commissioner for Home Affairs and tourism Lagos State, said there is need to be sympathetic and even sensitive to the interest and fundamental rights of the common man, peace of the nation. VANGUARD No fewer than nine out of the states that would be affected if the Senate passes the National Water Resources Bill it recently urged the executive to reintroduce have vowed to resist any attempt to take over their lands under any guise. August 11, 2019 In "News" Whoever is aspiring to take the position should be well qualified in tourism, planning, information and marketing or administration September 1, 2017 In "Travel & Tourism" ....Faults replacement of Agara, an Christian NPC chairman, with Isa, a Muslim By Dayo Johnson THE Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum, has accused the Federal Government of clandestine moves to revive the rejected Water Resources Bill, warning that such agenda would be inimical to the growth and development of… August 31, 2020 In "News"