Japan’s Naomi Osaka says she wants to spread awareness about racial injustice after the former U.S. Open Champion, walked onto court with a mask bearing the name of Breonna Taylor on Monday. Osaka, who moved to the United States as a three-year-old, has seven separate masks with her at Flushing Meadows and hopes to wear a different one at each stage on her path to the final. The mask she wore in her first-round match against Misaki Doi was dedicated to Taylor, a Black woman killed by police officers who burst into her apartment in March. “For me, I just want to spread awareness,” the fourth seed told reporters on a video conference. “I’m aware that tennis is watched all over the world, and maybe there is someone that doesn’t know Breonna Taylor’s story. “Maybe they’ll like Google it or something. I feel like the more people know the story, then the more interesting or interested they’ll become in it.” The 22-year-old Osaka has been at the forefront of protests from tennis players against racial injustice in the United States. She said she appreciated U.S. Open organisers putting up anti-racism artwork and ‘Black Lives Matter’ banners in the show-courts of Billie Jean King National Tennis Centre in the absence of spectators due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “I just feel like we’re heading towards a great direction, and there’s a lot of players that are supporting it,” she added after her 6-2 5-7 6-2 win over compatriot Doi. “I think there are lot of voices that are contributing towards a lot of things, so it’s definitely very nice to see.” While Osaka missed the crowd’s energy during tough moments on court,  she said the empty stands helped her concentrate as her mind can wander sometimes. “Like sometimes I will see a person with a cool outfit or something, they’re doing something, and I get distracted.” NAN Vanguard World number one Naomi Osaka refused on Wednesday to become embroiled in a dispute with one of her former coaches who is suing her for 20 percent of her career earnings. March 20, 2019 In "Sports" Naomi Osaka admitted that she gets "stressed out" trying to live up to "the hype" after the US Open champion was beaten in the China Open semi-finals on Saturday. October 6, 2018 In "Sports" Defending champion Naomi Osaka will seek a spot in the U.S. Open quarter-finals when she returns to the court on Monday while second seed Rafa Nadal faces former winner Marin Cilic in last 16 action. September 2, 2019 In "Sports"