As a way of assisting various organizations take the emerging opportunities and meet the evolving challenges of managing sensitive information, the Institute of Information Management, IIM, Africa and the Nigeria National Accreditation System, NiNAS, have signed a Memorandum of MoU. The President/Chairman of IIM-Africa, Dr. Oyedokun Oyewole said the purpose of the MoU is to provide a framework for the parties’ cooperation in the field of accreditation and training of data management in Nigeria. He said: “This MOU covers the relationship between NiNAS and IIM-Africa on matters of accreditation and training, in general, to strengthen quality infrastructure in Nigeria especially in Data and Information management and technology. He listed the areas of cooperation which include; promotion of accreditation for conformity assessment in the field of data and information protection/privacy, data and information lifecycle management as well as technology and other implementation tools. Oyewole said: “This MoU signing happened at the right time; when we need to train data and information managers in order to assist various organizations to seize the emerging opportunities and meet the evolving challenges of managing data and information in the era of knowledge, artificial intelligence, big data, cloud computing, machine learning and internet of things, IoT. “So, with NiNAS on board, we would have an exchange of experience and technical information on accreditation; and conduct joint stakeholder advocacy meetings to engender quality data and information management and certification among policymakers, organizations, and individuals”, he added. Also, the Director-General/Chief Executive Officer of   NiNAS, Celestine Okanya, signed on behalf of Nigeria’s national accreditation body recognized internationally to accredit conformity assessment bodies (CABs) such as laboratories. VANGUARD President/Chairman of the governing council of IIM-Africa, Dr. Oyedokun Oyewole has said that effective data governance strategy has become more essential for the survival and sustenance of government and businesses, especially with the sudden outbreak of COVID-19 Pandemic. Oyewole said there is the need to ensure that the right policies,… April 29, 2020 In "Technology" The Minister of Communications Barr. Adebayo Shittu , and his counter part, for Science & Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu are expected to speak at the national summit on Information Management hosted by the Institute of Information Management (IIM) holding soon. November 16, 2016 In "News" THE Institute of Information Management, IIM-Africa, has introduced a unique General Information Management Competence Certification (GIMC-Certification) programme aimed at raising the awareness among stakeholders and employees in various organizations to tackle information breeches. October 26, 2016 In "News"