THE National Executive Council, NEC, of the Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, on Tuesday ratified the decision of the Congress to embark on a nationwide protest on September 28. The planned protest was to compel the Federal Government to reverse the recent increase in prices of fuel and electricity tariff. NEC at the meeting held at Labour House Abuja condemned the timing of the increment and also advised the Federal Government to put the nation’s refineries into operations by revamping them with immediate effect. Speaking after the NEC, President of NLC, Comrade Ayuba Wabba warned that failure to meet the demands would compel workers to go ahead with their protest on the said date. Recall that the NLC had on Wednesday last week after State Working Council, SWC, meeting threatened to shut down the economy if the federal government refused to reverse the recent hike in petrol price and electricity tariff on or before September 28. The threat came after the Trade Union Congress, TUC, had given a seven-day ultimatum to the government to revert back to the old prices of petroleum pump price and the electricity tariff. Vanguard News Nigeria The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), has given the Federal Government a 14-day ultimatum to reverse the recent hike in electricity tariff and fuel price or face a “total shutdown of the country’s economy”. Mr Ayuba Wabba, NLC President, while addressing newsmen at the end of the body’s Central Working Committee… September 17, 2020 In "News" The outcome of the failed strike showed that labour leaders did not understand the socio-economic realities in the country where workers find it difficult to meet their daily needs. Issues of unpaid salary and pension had been on the front burner for months while the affected workers in both private… December 31, 2016 In "Issues" NIGERIA Labour Congress, NLC, led by Mr. Ayuba Wabba, yesterday suspended its ongoing nationwide strike to force the Federal Government to reverse the N145 per litre pump price of petrol and resolved to resume negotiation with the government. May 23, 2016 In "News"