The Lagos State Internal Revenue Service, LIRS, while congratulating the winner of Big Brother Nigeria reality Tv show season 5, Olamilekan Agbeleshe, popularly known as ‘Laycon’ urged him to be ready to pay his tax in the year 2021. The agency made this known in a tweet on Monday. It said “Congratulations Laycon, winner of BBNaija Lockdown edition. “More wins!! We look forward to seeing you in Y2021 as you pay your tax.” Laycon on Sunday emerged as the winner of the 2020 edition of the reality TV show that lasted for 71 days after he defeated other housemates by securing the highest number votes from viewers. The 2020 edition premiered on 19 July on Africa Magic and the live feed on DStv channel 198 and GOtv channel 29. Laycon who was declared winner got 60 per cent of the total votes cast by viewers to beat fellow housemate and top finalist, Dorathy Bachor, who got 21.65 per cent of the votes. Congratulations @itsLaycon  Winner @BBNaija Lockdown edition. More wins!! We look forward to seeing you in Y2021 as you #payyourtax — Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS) (@lirsgovng) September 28, 2020  By David Royal Big brother Naija housemate and top finalist, Olamilekan Agbeleshe, popularly known as Laycon has emerged the winner of the Lockdown edition 2020. Laycon was declared the winner of the 2020 lockdown edition of the show on Sunday after he beat other housemates with the highest number of… September 27, 2020 In "Entertainment" Describes him as face of positive revolution in African entertainment James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has congratulated the winner of the 2020 BBNaija lockdown show,  Mr.  Olamilekan Agbelesebioba,  popularly known as Laycon. The Governor who took to his social media handles to express his delight… September 28, 2020 In "Entertainment" By Ayo Onikoyi Anticipation is at a climax, as the grand finale for this year's edition of Big Brother Naija reality show holds tomorrow. This year's edition tagged "Lockdown" featured twenty housemates; ten males and ten females. Only five of them made it to the final week of the show.… September 26, 2020 In "Entertainment"