The  Board of Regents of Covenant University has appointed Professor Akan Williams as Acting Vice-Chancellor. Professor Williams’ appointment, according to the institution’s spokesman, Mr. Emmanuel Attat, was made on Tuesday, September 22, following the expiration of the tenure of the immediate past Vice-Chancellor, Professor A. A. A. Atayero. The indigene of Itoko, Ibesikpo-Asutan LGA of Akwa Ibom, earned a B.Sc (Chemistry) from the University of Calabar in 1991, an M.Sc (Petroleum Chemistry) from the University of Port Harcourt and a Ph.D. (Environmental Chemistry) from Covenant University. He is a Professor of Analytical/Environmental Chemistry. And prior to his recent appointment, he was the Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the University. Professor Williams had earlier served as Head, Department of Chemistry; Director, Vice-Chancellor’s Office; Director, Academic Planning and Dean of Students. He also served as Chairman of about 23 strategic committees in the University at different times. The new Acting VC, who belonged to several professional bodies and has served as a member of the National Universities Commission, NUC, accreditation team is a Pastor with the Living Faith Church. He is District Pastor, Winners Satellite Fellowship, WSF, Canaan Land. He is married to Deaconess Lifted Williams and are blessed with two sons. VANGUARD Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti on Tuesday approved the appointment of an industrial chemist, Prof. Edward Olanipekun, as the new Vice-Chancellor of Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti. August 20, 2019 In "News" Vice Chancellors of all the 117 universities in Nigeria including registrars, bursars and librarians are in Covenant University, Canaanland, Ota, for the 26th Conference of the Association of Vice-Chancellors of Nigerian Universities (AVCNU). This is the first time a private university is hosting the conference for four days. June 30, 2011 In "Education" You erred ― Senate Babalakin wants to create anarchy ― ASUU Committee of VCs calls for due process We are waiting for government's position ― NAPTAN By Adesina Wahab The crisis rocking the University of Lagos, UNILAG, took a new turn at the weekend as the Chairman of the Governing… August 17, 2020 In "Education"