Ghanaian music producer Jeff Tennyson Quaye a.k.a. Jay Q has accused Nigerian artistes and producer Selebobo of using his work without his permission. According to him, Selebobo (real name Udoka Oku) used the horn melodies he played in VIP’s ‘Ahomka Wom’ for his recent song: ‘Take.’ Vanguard, however, gathered that Jay Q began litigation processes after Selebobo allegedly failed to take any action over the matter. The Ghanaian beatmaker, confirmed this development in a chat, saying his publishers in South Africa, Sheer Publishing, had commenced talks with Selebobo over the matter. “People sent the song to me. And when I checked, Selebobo had used the trombone melodies that I played in there. “And so, I contacted my publishers in South Africa and they are in talks,” Jay Q said from his base in the U.S. He also vowed that his team would pursue the case in court unless Selebobo either withdraws the song or share profits from it 50-50 with him. Apart from VIP, Jay Q has also worked with great Ghanaian musicians Castro, Mzbel, Obrafour, and Daddy Lumba. Other are Nana Acheampong, Ofori Amponsah, Akosua Agyapong, Obuoba J. A. Adofo, Wulomei, among others. Vanguard News Nigeria. 1. Yemi Alade featuring Selebobo – Na Gode Yemi Alade is finally back with the music video for her hit song Na Gode featuring Selebobo. The song is produced by Selebobo and serves as the lead single for Yemi Alade’s sophomore album called Mama Africa. The video is directed by… November 7, 2015 In "Entertainment" RISING music act, Nwanua Elemuno, a.k.a Jtblock who claims he has what it takes to hold his own in the nation’s music scene has revealed why he dumped the art of dancing that has brought him fame and accolades for music. November 18, 2016 In "Entertainment" A-list comedians Bovi, Gordons and Buchi along with superstar musicians Iyanya and Korede Bello are some of the big names who have been confirmed to be performing at Funnybone’s debut flagship concert, ‘Funnybone Untamed’ holding on Sunday February 21. February 9, 2016 In "Entertainment"