As the nation prepares for the reopening of schools, the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, has mandated schools to carry out weekly risk assessments while states and local governments are to conduct monthly and quarterly risk assessments. Mrs Elsie Ilori, Head, Department of Surveillance and Epidemiology, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, announced this on Thursday in Abuja at the joint PTF briefing on COVID-19. According to her, the PTF has continued to educate the public on measures to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19. “We have also continued to review the situation in other countries that have re-opened schools. We also receive guidance from WHO and other public health authorities. “If schools carefully coordinate, plan and put the required safety measures in place before reopening, there is lesser risk of COVID-19 cases in school settings. “We are working closely with the Federal Ministry of Education, PTF-COVID-19, States and our partners to ensure that the required safety measures are in place to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on our schools. “The PTF-COVID-19 and Federal Ministry of Education have mandated schools to conduct periodic (weekly) risk assessments, while States and local governments are to conduct monthly and quarterly risk assessment respectively. “This will help to promptly address the gaps that may exist in reducing the risk of COVID-19 spread in schools. “Beyond this, local governments have been advised to set up multi-sectoral school health committees dedicated to supporting and monitoring the implementation of safety protocols in the schools,” she said. Ilori further stated that safe school reopening required the collective efforts of all, including parents, teachers, school authorities, communities, civil society organisations and the media. “The government cannot do it alone. We must all work together,” he said. The PTF advised school managements against conducting tests for returning students. “The focus should be on monitoring and careful observation of students with all non-pharmaceutical measures in place,” she said. The PTF Coordinator, Dr Sani Aliyu, also explained that conducting such tests would be “an unnecessary burden on parents as the result is only good as when it is done because anyone could contact COVID-19 after the test if proper non-pharmaceutical measures are not observed”. (NAN) vanguardngr.com The Federal Government has directed the "restrictive opening" of worship centres but with a caveat that relevant containment protocols against the Covid-19 be respected in line with the agreement reached between the Presidential Taskforce PTF on Covid-19 and the state governments. June 1, 2020 In "News" ...Says, meetings in Govt offices must not exceed four persons ...No date for commencing Int'l flights By Omeiza Ajayi ABUJA: The Federal Government has released a 52-page set of guidelines for the reopening of schools in the country as it continues to manage the Covid-19 Pandemic. While it listed several… July 13, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has released a 52-page set of guidelines for the reopening of schools in the country as it continues to manage the COVID-19 pandemic. July 14, 2020 In "Health"