The trial of ousted Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir and others for a 1989 military coup was adjourned on Tuesday to October 6, the presiding judge said. Proceedings have been repeatedly delayed, with Tuesday’s hearing the fifth since the trial opened in July. The case involves a total of 28 defendants who stand accused of plotting the 1989 Islamist-backed military coup which brought Bashir to power. “The next hearing will be held on October 6 to go through with the procedures,” Judge Essam el-Din Mohamed told the hearing, which was broadcast on Sudan TV. If convicted, Bashir and other co-accused — including former top officials — could face the death penalty in Sudan. In December, the former strongman was convicted of corruption and sentenced to two years in a correctional centre. Bashir had ruled Sudan with an iron fist for 30 years until his overthrow on April 11, 2019, following unprecedented youth-led street demonstrations. He is also wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) to face charges of genocide and crimes against humanity in the western region of Darfur. The United Nations estimates 300,000 people were killed and 2.5 million displaced in the conflict since 2003. Sudan’s transitional government have agreed that Bashir would face the ICC. However, in a peace deal with rebels last month, the government agreed to set up a special court for crimes in Darfur, and that Bashir should also stand trial before that. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. A Sudan court on Tuesday began the trial of ousted autocrat Omar al-Bashir for leading a military coup that brought him to power 31 years ago. Al-Bashir and 26 other defendants gave brief introductory statements at the Supreme Court in the capital, Khartoum. A judge then rejected the defence’s appeal… September 1, 2020 In "News" The trial of Sudan's toppled strongman Omar al-Bashir over his role in the 1989 military coup that brought him to power was adjourned to September 22, the judge said on Tuesday. The judge said the hearing was "procedural" and that requests were being considered to change the packed courtroom to… September 16, 2020 In "News" Sudan's former autocratic president Omar al-Bashir, ousted amid a popular pro-democracy uprising last year, faces trial from Tuesday over the military coup that brought him to power more than three decades ago. Bashir, 76, who is already behind bars for corruption, could face the death penalty if convicted over his… July 20, 2020 In "Foreign"