Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has said Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State will not leave Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, after winning a second term in last Saturday’s governorship election on the party’s platform. He said “It is impossible,” but that “assuming it happens, so what? That is politics. There is nothing wrong if the governor (Obaseki) believes that PDP is no longer the party for him to actualise his vision and mission. “But he (Obaseki) has consistently told us that there’s no way he will leave PDP. If he does, for example, the people of Edo State will not be happy and he is somebody I have that trust in. “The party clothed him and when it was raining gave him the umbrella.” He added that “APC is not a political party. It’s people who came together to take power from PDP. That is the crisis they are having together. “It’s a party of strange bedfellow that came together to conspire against the former President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan.” On the other hand, he noted, “PDP has been PDP since 1999 and not made up of different parties,” adding that protection is why politicians are jumping from one party to the other. Governor Wike, who was Chairman of the party’s campaign council for the Edo election, spoke in a Channels TV’s Friday morning live interview. Asked what role he played in the Edo election, Wike said he did nothing special and that the victory was a collective effort, giving “kudos the governors of Oyo and Delta states” who “contributed immensely to the success of the governor of Edo State.” He added that it was a mistake to say he deployed resources for the election, asking what resources does a sitting governor need. VANGUARD Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has praised Edo people, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and other Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, governors for their role in his re-election at the September 19 poll. September 23, 2020 In "Edo Decides" BENIN CITY – THE All Progressives Congress, APC in Edo State yesterday alleged that the Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP Campaign Council who is also the governor of Rivers State, Nyesome Wike and Governor Godwin Obaseki who is the candidate of the PDP have perfected plans to unleash violence in… July 29, 2020 In "News" Delta State GovernorDr. Ifeanyi Okowa, has urged Edo people to re-elect Governor Godwin Obaseki in Saturday Governorship election, saying it is in their best interest to do so. September 15, 2020 In "Politics"