A lawmaker representing Obokun/Oriade federal constituency of Osun state in the House of Representatives, Hon. Busayo Wole Oke has described Governor Seyi Makinde as ‘the best person” to the lead the Peoples Democratic Party to victory in the South West. The lawmaker premised his position on the face that Makinde is the only governor in the zone elected on the platform of the PDP. In a statement made available to journalists in Abuja, Oke noted that Makinde, “who is the only PDP governor in the South West, emerged as leader of the zone” stressing that “no loyal and committed member of the PDP family should challenge the noble arrangement in the over all interest of the party except for selfish interest.” Justifying his argument, the lawmaker added that “aside convention and practices, he brings on board decency, finesse, humility, decorum, he cares and love his fellow party men. He’s educated, deep and exposed. He has lot of experience and core professionals before coming into power. We can gain a lot from him.” While calling on the larger party family to rally round the governor, Oke noted that  “anybody that is grandstanding is on his own, the party is greater than anybody”. Oke who chairs the House Committee on Public Accounts,  however, urged leaders from the zone to throw their weight of support behind Makinde’s leadership to enable the PDP cruise to victory in the 2023 elections. Vanguard By James Ogunnaike A faction of the Ogun State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), loyal to late Senator Buruji Kashamu on Thursday said the former Governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, lacked the moral right to complain about the leadership of the party in the South West.… September 10, 2020 In "Politics" By Adeola Badru GOVERNOR Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has told the former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, that he would continue to play his roles in the interest of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. The governor's response, followed the statement credited to former Governor Fayose, warning Makinde, to… September 10, 2020 In "Politics" By Dirisu Yakubu Ahead of the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, national campaign council has tasked voters to reject “all phoney promises” by the All Progressives Congress, APC candidate and governor of the state, Rotimi Akeredolu and instead, pitch tent with Eyitayo Jegede,… September 14, 2020 In "Focus: Ondo Guber"