Sierra Leonean anti-corruption investigators requested to interview ex-president Ernest Bai Koroma on Wednesday, a spokesman said, after the government pledged to recover funds allegedly embezzled under his watch. The move follows the end of a year-long graft probe into Koroma and his former ministers in March, which found that funds worth tens of millions of dollars remain unaccounted for. Sierra Leone’s current president, Julius Maada Bio, pledged this month to claw back any misappropriated funds. On Wednesday, the West African state’s anti-corruption commission requested to quiz Koroma in person on October 5, the body’s spokesman Patrick Sandy said. The justice ministry on Monday banned the ex-president and several other former ministers from leaving the country. Koroma did not respond to a request for comment from AFP. Members of the ex-president’s All Peoples Congress party have dismissed the corruption probe as a “witch-hunt”, however. Sierra Leone boasts huge mineral and diamond deposits, but it remains one of the world’s poorest nations, still recovering from decades of war and disease. Koroma governed the country of some 7.5 million people from 2007 until 2018, when Bio won a presidential election on promises to tackle corruption. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Sierra Leone's President Julius Maada Bio has pledged to retrieve funds worth tens of millions of dollars allegedly misappropriated under his predecessor, after a year-long graft probe. Speaking at a news conference in the capital Freetown on Thursday, he said his government was "determined to draw a line" under corruption… September 26, 2020 In "Foreign" Sierra Leone’s former Vice President Victor Foh and former Mines Minister Minkailu Mansaray were arrested on Thursday on charges of alleged corruption, a spokesman for the West African country’s anti-corruption commission said. July 5, 2018 In "News" The wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari, has commiserated with the first lady of Sierra Leone, Mrs Sia Koroma over the unfortunate mudslide that killed over 300 people in Sierra Leone. August 16, 2017 In "News"