Billionaire businessman and philanthropist, Captain Hosa Okunbo, has called on Edo State’s sons and daughters at home and the Diaspora, to cooperate with Governor Godwin Obaseki to build a vibrant democracy and economy. Okunbo made the call in an advertorial; a reaction to the emergence of Obaseki as winner of the September 19 governorship election, having polled 307,955 votes to beat his main rival, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu of All Progressives Congress, APC, who scored 223,619 votes. Captain Okunbo, a staunch supporter of Ize-Iyamu, had said he would spend his last kobo to ensure the APC candidate wins, following several incidences of friction between him and the incumbent governor. In the advertorial published on Tuesday, Okunbo said before the election he had suffered the most orchestrated attacks on his person, leaving him to defend himself because of the beliefs. “Thankfully,” he wrote, “the elections have been free and fair and peaceful. The people have spoken in no uncertain terms. “It is incumbent upon me as a protagonist for the candidate of APC, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, to now issue a statement in my personal capacity as a private citizen. “I congratulate the people of Edo State, who took their civic responsibility with a sense of urgency and trooped out to express themselves. “I also wish to congratulate His Excellency Governor Godwin Obaseki for winning the mandate to continue for another four years. “May the next four years take the state to the promised land under your leadership. “As a loyal citizen of Nigeria and an indigene of Edo State, I urge all of the people at home and abroad to join hands with the governor to build a vibrant democracy and a vibrant economy, where the youths can find gainful employment in an atmosphere of peace and security.” VANGUARD Edo State-born business magnate, and philanthropist, Captain Hosa Okunbo, told Vanguard that after he went on his knees to beg Governor Godwin Obaseki not to fight the former governor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Obaseki said he would be collateral damage if he does not stay away from the matter. September 7, 2020 In "Edo elections" Ahead of the September 19, 2020 governorship election in Edo State, Captain Hosa Okunbo, businessman and philanthropist has distanced himself from last week's botched mini- primary of the All Progressives Congress, APC. The exercise held in Benin City with a plan to produce a consensus aspirant to face Governor Godwin… May 10, 2020 In "Politics" By Jimoh Babatunde The leader of All Progressives Congress APC in Edo Central Senatorial District, Chief Francis Inegbeniki, has challenged Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State to publish, in three newspapers, projects he started, completed and commissioned in the four years he has been governor. Inegbeniki also described as misplaced… July 24, 2020 In "Politics"