A group of PDP Youths in Senatorial District under the auspices of the Concerned Youths of Cross River North on Tuesday demanded justice for their slain colleague Charles Onwe who was killed a night before the PDP primaries for the Northern Senatorial District held in Ogoja. The group expressed surprise that weeks after the tragic incident which led to the death of Charles no one has been arrested and perpetrators are almost going Scot free despite the heinous crime. Briefing journalists on Tuesday in Calabar, the group Secretary, Ajegi Ikachi who spoke on their behalf bemoaned that stance of the party on the matter stressing that the PDP has been silent over the incident and called for urgent action by Party and stakeholders concerned. He stated: “We the PDP youths of the Northern Senatorial District of Cross River are dismayed nearly one month after the election that was characterized by unprecedented violence that left some party faithful maimed and traumatized, the party has not called those affected to a round table to calm frayed nerves. “Up till now no word of condolence gone out to the family of Charles Onwe who was brutally murdered on the eve of the Primary Election of the Senate of the Northern Senatorial District. This is not in the character of our dear party”, he said. Vanguard learned that the Ward Chairman of Wanihem Ward was still receiving treatment at Mkar for gunshot wounds after being shot at the venue of the election by armed security personnel. The group appealed to the police to “aggressively” carry out action on the investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators. They also called on the leadership as well as other stakeholders of the party to bring the party together ahead of by-elections. Vanguard News Nigeria By Tordue Salem A member of the House of Representatives, Rep. Jarigbe Agom Jarigbe, has dragged the people's Democratic Party, PDP to Court over an alleged skewed outcome of the last Senatorial primary election of the party in Cross River State. The lawmaker who represents Ogoja/Yala Federal Constituency of Cross… September 11, 2020 In "News" Chioma Onuegbu - Uyo Tension is mounting in different parts of Akwa Ibom State particularly Akwa Ibom Northwest as Saturday, February, 23 the new date fixed for the presidential and National Assembly elections draws closer. The tension is against the background of fears of the pre-election attacks on INEC offices… February 20, 2019 In "News" (Port Harcourt) In Warri, Oshiomhole boasted that Governor Okowa should get his handover note ready, while Osinbajo maintained that the state could no longer afford to be ruled by PDP, comments that infuriated Gbagi, who upbraided them to be mindful of their utterances, as they cannot enslave Deltans. March 9, 2019 In "News"