Lionel Messi scored twice on Wednesday as Barcelona beat second-division Girona 3-1 in a preseason friendly. Messi helped set up Philippe Coutinho, back from his loan at Bayern Munich, for the first goal after 21 minutes. The Argentine scored his first after 45 minutes, spinning on the edge of the penalty area and drilling a shot in off the base of the far post. He scored his second, with a deflected shot, after 50 minutes. He went off after an hour. Messi only returned to training at the start of last week after saying he wanted to leave the club. Messi started Barcelona’s first friendly on Saturday, playing 45 minutes without scoring in a 3-1 victory over third-tier Gimnastica Tarragona. Earlier on Wednesday, La Liga president Javier Tebas said he was pleased Messi had stayed at Barcelona. “Messi is important for our competition,” said Tebas, at an event to promote the Liga sticker collection. “He is a player who was born in our competition… and hopefully he will finish his career in our league.” Barcelona used 20 players in Wednesday’s game at the club’s training centre but neither Uruguayan forward Luis Suarez nor Chilean midfielder Arturo Vidal appeared. Manager Ronald Koeman said after the game he had talked to Suarez and acknowledged Barcelona might not be able to sell him. “If finally he does not find a team and ends up staying, he will be one more player for the squad,” said Koeman. Barcelona are due to start their league campaign on September 26 or 27 against Villarreal. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Lionel Messi started and played 45 minutes in Barcelona's first pre-season friendly on Saturday as Ronald Koeman showed no hesitation in reintegrating the Argentinian. Barca beat third tier side Gimnastic Tarragona 3-1, with Ousmane Dembele opening the scoring on his first appearance since November. Antoine Griezmann and Philippe Coutinho, who… September 13, 2020 In "Sports" Lionel Messi scored twice as Barcelona extended their La Liga lead with a thumping 7-1 win over bottom side Osasuna. April 26, 2017 In "News" Lionel Messi left Liverpool needing a miracle to reach their second Champions League final in as many years as his brace helped Barcelona win a pulsating Champions League semi-final first leg 3-0 on Wednesday. May 1, 2019 In "Sports"