Lagos State Government has commenced reconstruction of the damaged buildings affected by the Opebi helicopter crash, last Friday, in which all three crew on board died. Recall that a Bell 206 helicopter, belonging to Quorum Aviation, crashed in-between two residential buildings, Number 14 and 16, Salvation Road, Opebi, Ikeja, mid-day on Friday. The state Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, a day after conducted an on the spot- post disaster assessment to the site with a promise to rebuild the damaged structures. According to the Director- General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency LASEMA, Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, the reconstruction of the affected fence and buildings commenced in the early hours on Monday, following the governor’s promise. He said the state government will conduct integrity tests on the affected buildings within a hundred metres radius and do necessary repairs to assist the affected families by restoring normalcy as quickly as possible. Speaking at the construction site, LASEMA boss said that beyond the conduct of integrity tests and impact assessments on the affected buildings and entire disaster area within 100 metres radius, the journey of quick restoration to normalcy, has commenced. Vanguard ...Promises to repair damaged properties By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has ordered immediate conduct of integrity test on the two buildings at No 16B and 14, Salvation Road, Opebi, Ikeja, affected by the Friday crash of a light helicopter belonging to Quorum Aviation Limited. The three… August 29, 2020 In "News" …Sanwo-Olu orders integrity test on affected buildings By Lawani Mikairu and Olasunkanmi Akoni The Bell 206 Helicopter operated by Quorum Aviation Limited which crashed on Friday in Opebi area of Ikeja, Lagos State was not fitted with Black Box. It was rated for one pilot. This information came to light… August 30, 2020 In "News" …Propeller broke into my compound, other parts split into my daughter’s …Three crew members killed …It struggled in the air before crashing into the building—Resident …How it crashed—Eyewitnesses By Lawani Mikairu & Bose Adelaja A 90-year-old woman, Mrs Olapeju Johnson could not believe how she miraculously escaped death yesterday when… August 29, 2020 In "News"