A Council of Chiefs in Okirika Local Government Area of Rivers State has stated that King Ateke Tom did not reign in the region as a criminal, but as a peacemaker and freedom fighter. The Council of Chiefs from Okochiri, also cautioned the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, against attacks on the ruler of Okochiri kingdom, His Royal Majesty, King Ateke Tom. Amaechi had over the week at the burial of a former Supreme Court Justice, Justice Adolphus Karibi-White in Abonnema, Asari-Turo Local Government Area of Rivers State claimed that the state had returned to the days of Ateke when there was no peace in the state. However, the Chairman of Okochiri Kingdom Council of Chiefs, Chief Jackson Ibiteinbo, described the comment as unfounded, adding that it was aimed at denigrating the revered throne of the kingdom. Ibiteinbo said the kingdom was saddened with the treatment and comments targeted insulting the king, adding that it would not take such attacks lightly again, begging the president to check the activities of the Minister. He said: ” As a kingdom, we are appalled at the callous manner Ameachi has exhibited his lack of respect for the Ancient Okochiri kingdom but not surprised because the lack of proper breeding cannot be compensated for by political opportunism. “We condemn this in its totality and call for caution as we will no longer entertain such despicable and uncultured behaviour which he has exhibited at every given opportunity.” Vanguard News Nigeria South-South Chiefs and Elders and Opinion Leaders Network Association of Nigerian, have condemned the invasion of the residence of the Amanyanabo of Okochiri Kingdom in Okirika Local Government Area of Rivers State, King Ateke Tom, by men in military uniform believed to be military men, during the governorship and state… April 21, 2019 In "News" One person has been killed following an alleged attempt by some unknown bandits to assassinate the Amanyanabo of Okochiri Kingdom in Okirika Local Government Area of Rivers State, His Royal Majesty, King Ateke Tom. May 30, 2018 In "News" Chiefs and Elders of Okochiri Kingdom in Okirika Local Government Area of Rivers State have demanded apology from  All Progressives Congress, APC, for an alleged denigration of His Royal Majesty, King Ateke Tom. December 15, 2017 In "News"