Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo has said that his re-election in the just concluded governorship election for another four years has finally sent the lions and tigers into the zoo to be caged permanently from Edo politics. Obaseki disclosed this on Monday in Benin while addressing a crowd of PDP supporters at the popular Kings square shortly after a victory match round the Benin Metropolis. The Governor was accompanied by his Deputy Gov. Philip Shaibu, Chairman Edo PDP Campaign Council, Dan Orbih, House of Rep. Member, Ogbeide Ihama, among others. According to him, the message of Saturday’s governorship election means I should go and work for Edo people. It is clear, the Edo people have spoken loud and clear. “You have helped me caged the lions and tigers in the State, you will never see them again in Edo because they are all in the zoo now where they belong. “Today, I promise you that we will work for Edo people because no one will hinder us from delivering the dividend of democracy to Edo people. “My Deputy, Philip Shaibu, and I will go back to the office and work for Edo people. I want to thank everyone residing in the state; you spoke and we have heard you and ready to ever work for you. “The next four years in the state will be the one that all citizens will live to remember as we will consolidate on our developmental achievements in the State. Thank you all,” he said. Earlier, the Chairman of Edo PDP Campaign Council, Mr Dan Orbih, said that the victory had shown that Edo people rejected godfatherism, money bag politics and given the mandate for development of the State. “With your support and votes, you have started new dawn in Edo Politics, Nigeria’s democracy, and by extension that the State will never remain the same again as Obaseki’s re-election has ended godfatherism in the State. “Obaseki’s re-election has shown that Edo people are wiser, and the state is in the path of development as the people have spoken loudly and have finally silenced godfatherism in Edo Politics,” he said. (NAN) Vanguard …Buhari, Atiku, Bode George, governors, others hail Obaseki …It was a contest between Edo people and Oshiomhole — Owie …Poll massively rigged, we’ll decide on next step —APC …I’m studying situation, ‘ll meet with my party for action, says Ize-Iyamu By Clifford Ndujihe, Henry Umoru, Gabriel Enogholease, Festus Ahon, Ozioruva… September 21, 2020 In "Edo elections" By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja The Founder of a non-profit making organization, One Love Foundation, OLF, Chief Patrick Eholor, Tuesday, demanded an apology from the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, who is the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, for the governorship election coming up 11 days… September 8, 2020 In "News" SEVERAL persons were, yesterday, injured as supporters of the two main political parties in the country, All Progressives Congress, APC, and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, clashed near the palace of the Oba of Benin when PDP governors, led by the Chairman of the PDP Campaign Council, Governor Nyesom Wike,… July 26, 2020 In "News"