Mc Galaxy, Nigerian musician and music producer, may have given up on his favourite house mate in the current Big Brother Naija reality show, Nengi. Judging by his recent Instagram post, one won’t be wrong to believe he doesn’t think she stands a chance of winning the reality show. This is what he posted on his official Instagram page: “Congratulations to @nengiofficial for going this far..though people misunderstood you, but I want to tell you that either you win or not, with the right management, you will be one of the richest big brother house mate this year. Your money is outside.” Not a few people agreed with him. While some just jokingly questioned his intentions towards Nengi, others just outrightly agreed with, while mentioning another housemate’s name, as likely winner. Here are some reactions.. @ehiannelo wrote: “Mcgalaxy wan use style nack Nengi” @pretty_francabrown wrote: “You better keep the money for her outside. Because inside money is for Laycon.” Nengi, together with Laycon, Vee, Neo and Dorathy, are the remaining housemates left in this year’s Big Brother Naija season 5, also called BBNaija Lockdown. They are expected to remain in the house that once accommodated 20 housemates, until a winner is announced, next weekend. Vanguard By David Royal Ozo has been evicted from the Big Brother Naija Lockdown House. He is the second of the four nominated housemates to be evicted in the 9th week of the show. Ozo's eviction was announced during the live show on Sunday by the show host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, who… September 20, 2020 In "Entertainment" Big Brother Naija Lockdown housemate, Nengi has playfully accused Ozo her ‘best friend’ in the house of masturbating. Nengi said this after she visited Ozo’s bed Wednesday evening and found ‘cum stains on his bed.’ Ozo however, denied masturbating in the house but Nengi insisted that Ozo was helping himself.… September 17, 2020 In "Entertainment" By David Royal Laycon has become the first housemate in the Big Brother Nigeria lockdown house to have one million followers on his Instagram page. This is a record-breaking achievement because, since the inception of the reality show, no housemate has ever reached one million followers on Instagram while still… September 20, 2020 In "Entertainment"