The Bayelsa State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Solomon Agwanana, has congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki, his Deputy, Hon Philip Shuaibu, party leaders and members in Edo and the South-South over the party victory in last Saturday gubernatorial poll in Edo State. Agwanana said the victory of Obaseki signified the triumph of the popular will over the dictatorial tendencies of godfathers who willfully impose unpopular candidates on the people. The PDP Chairman who described the outcome of the election as a victory for democracy said that he was certain that Obaseki would reward the Edo people with the sustained provision of democratic dividends in the state. He said that a similar fate of rejection awaits the leaders of the APC in Bayelsa who imposed unpopular and unelectable senatorial candidates on the people of Bayelsa West and Central Senatorial Districts of the state. “The APC leader in Bayelsa State willfully imposed a candidate from Ekeremor on Bayelsa West when an Ekeremor man already occupies the position for the House of Reps in the constituency in utter disregard of popular sentiments and wishes of the people,” he said. According to him, the APC leaders had no regard for the desires and aspirations of the people because they bank on the federal might, soldiers, and a plan to compromise officials of the Independent National Election Commission to write results for victory in the election. He calls on PDP leaders and members to get ready to defeat them decisively in all the polling units of the two senatorial districts. Vanguard …Buhari, Atiku, Bode George, governors, others hail Obaseki …It was a contest between Edo people and Oshiomhole — Owie …Poll massively rigged, we’ll decide on next step —APC …I’m studying situation, ‘ll meet with my party for action, says Ize-Iyamu By Clifford Ndujihe, Henry Umoru, Gabriel Enogholease, Festus Ahon, Ozioruva… September 21, 2020 In "Edo elections" Efforts of governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC, to secure a soft-landing for Governor Godwin Obaseki have hit a brick-wall, if outcome of party leaders’ meeting with Professor Ibrahim Gambari, Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, are anything to go by. June 16, 2020 In "Politics" ...Obaseki wants automatic ticket, afraid of strong opposition – Oshiomhole’s supporter By Clifford Ndujihe, Gabriel Enogholase & Ozioruva Aliu MORE intrigues have continued to unfold ahead of the 2020 governorship election in Edo State as Vanguard reliably gathered Thursday that Governor Godwin Obaseki has got the support of two governors… February 28, 2020 In "News"