WBC heavyweight champion Tyson Fury has applied pressure on his domestic rival, Anthony Joshua, to bypass any further obligations that stand in the way of a 2021 showdown. “Rather than fight all these mandatories he’s got, I’d say just vacate those belts and fight the fight everyone wants to see,” Fury told Behind the Gloves. “I ain’t running from you, I don’t care about you. I’ll go through you like a knife through butter. Come and fight the big boy, step up to the plate and get knocked out. Then fight all those easy guys. No disrespect to Oleksandr Usyk – great fighter, cruiserweight world champion, probably going to be heavyweight champion if he fights Anthony Joshua – but don’t take my retirement cheque, baby. Don’t do it. “I said to Deontay Wilder years ago, ‘do not take my retirement fund, do not fight Joshua, He’s mine. He’s my countryman, I’m having him, I’m breaking him in!’ But it didn’t happen. He got broke in by an unlikely suspect [in Andy Ruiz]. It was what it was. If they fight [Usyk will beat Joshua], but I bet they don’t [fight]. Because why would he fight Usyk and get ten percent of what he can make off the Gypsy King. “Vacate it, let them boys fight for the vacant [WBO] belt, whoever it is, Usyk and [Joseph] Parker. We’re at the top of the game. We’re in this boxing to fight the biggest fights out there. It’s a boxing match, what’s the worse that can happen? You can lose? Big deal.” Vanguard Britain's Anthony Joshua believes his long-awaited clash with fellow world heavyweight champion Deontay Wilder will take place as it would be "silly not to". September 23, 2018 In "Sports" Deontay Wilder still hopes to face Anthony Joshua in a heavyweight unification bout but is happy to hand rival Tyson Fury a rematch following their epic draw. December 2, 2018 In "Sports" Britain's world heavyweight boxing champion, Tyson Fury sent messages to Anthony Joshua, Deontay Wilder, Dillian Whyte and even Eddie Hearn during his workout Tuesday morning. The WBC heavyweight champion was in a teasing mood and decided to ruffle some feathers with his comments. Fury began: “I don’t know any more… June 3, 2020 In "Sports"