THE 17 factional lawmakers of Edo State House of Assembly led by Hon Victor Edoror held plenary yesterday where they said the approval given to Governor Godwin Obaseki by the other members led by Hon Frank Okiye to obtain N1.5 billion loan is null and void. It called on the commercial bank being approached for the facility to decline approval. Speaking under matters of urgent public importance, the Deputy Speaker,  Emmanuel Agbaje, who represents Akoko-Edo II, decried the approval of the  loan “by an illegal gathering of dissident members in the Government House, who claim they have approved the sum of N1.5billion naira for Godwin Obaseki led Government of Edo State.” He said the purpose of the loan is to fund their electoral interests adding that “their election is not an official matter of the state, we as a House cannot afford to sell the future of our children.” On his part, the member representing Oredo West Consistency, Chris Okaeben said he and his colleague from Oredo were embarrassed by the action of the governor. “I want to apologise to the people of Edo State and all lovers of democracy for the erroneous and thus far embarrassing activities of the present governor of Edo state” The factional Speaker, Edoror, asked the Clerk to send clean copies of the sitting’s resolution to the Governor of the Edo State, Attorney-General of the Federation, the Director General, Debt Management Office, as well as all anti-graft agencies. They also said the house has terminated the appointment of the Clerk of the House, Yaya Omogbai who he said has been on suspension and also announced Mr. Samuel Efezokhale as the acting Clerk of the House. Reacting, Okiye said responding to their action is like giving them credibility. He described them as impostors that should be investigated by the police. He said he was expecting the police to investigate them as ordered by the court for treason and felony, “what they are doing remains a big joke. It is of no value before the law.” Vanguard The crisis rocking Edo House of Assembly is not about to end as the 17 lawmakers opposed to Governor Godwin Obaseki vowed to sit next Wednesday. August 9, 2020 In "News" Leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo North Senatorial District, have applauded the emergence of Rt. Hon. Frank Okiye as the Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly (EDHA). June 24, 2019 In "News" We are here to inform the people of the world that what happened yesterday (Monday) is a welcome development in our state and we want to use this opportunity to urge the rest of the elected members to follow suit with the same way others came yesterday to elect their… June 19, 2019 In "News"