No fewer than 36 persons have been feared dead, following an accident that occurred at Akaeze Development Centre in Ivo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. Vanguard gathered that the accident occurred at Akaeze bridge in Akaeze development centre. Unconfirmed report has it that a 608 bus conveying 36 people coming from a burial ceremony in Ebony State lost control and plunged into Akaeze River. “After the burial ceremony in Ebonyi,  the 608 bus conveying 36 persons going back to Enugu, while trying to overtake a trailer, the driver lost control and the bus jump into the River.” In a phone conversation with the Coordinator of Akaeze Development Centre, Mr Sinbad, he said; “rescue has begun. There are a few dead bodies. I cannot fully confirm the situation now. One person is alive. We are looking for more people. We cannot ascertain the number of people.” Confirming the incident, the State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Loveth Odah, stated that five persons have so far been rescued from the River as one of the victims died while receiving treatment in the Hospital. “The Victims are receiving treatment at St Denis hospital, Akaeze”. Vanguard News Nigeria. 5 persons have been rescued so far — Police By Peter Okutu - Abakaliki No fewer than 36 persons have been feared dead, following an accident that occurred at Akaeze Development Centre in Ivo Local Government Area of the State. Vanguard gathered that the accident occurred at Akaeze bridge in… September 18, 2020 In "News" NO fewer than 19 persons were reportedly killed in multiple accidents involving different commercial vehicles along the Enugu-Abakaliki Expressway in Ebonyi State, yesterday. November 18, 2016 In "News" ENUGU THE people of Awgu and Aninri Local Government Areas in Enugu State have unveiled the sculpture of Deputy Senate President, DSP, Ike Ekwremadu mounted at the road junction within the community leading to Akaeze, Uburu and Ishiagu all in Ebonyi State on the Akaeze-Aninri-Awgu-Oji River federal road attracted by… January 7, 2016 In "News"