Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari has again appointed the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, as a member Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for Presidential Power Initiate. This is contained in a statement signed by Dr Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations Office of the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice and made available to newsmen in Abuja on Friday 11th day of September 2020. According to the statement, members of the committee included the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Mrs Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, Minister of Power Saleh Mamman, and Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola. Other members of the committee included the Director-General of Nigeria’s Bureau of Public Enterprise Mr Alex A. Okoh, and the President Nigerian Society of Engineers, Babagana Mohammed. Inaugurating the Committee on Thursday, President Muhamamdu Buhari who described power sector as one of the most critical components of sustainable development, expressed commitment to improving the delivery of power in the country as his enduring and defining legacy. He said following the Federal Executive Council Approval, the coast is now clear and the SPV has the responsibility of executing the Presidential Power Initiative (PPI), providing project management for the implementation of PPI and serve as the key manager to ensure cohesion and seamless execution. Vanguard SPECIAL assistant to the president, Senate, Senator Ita Enang Friday tendered an unreserved apology to the Senate over statements by a presidential aide, Okoi Obono- Oblo to the effect that the Senate lacked the powers to summon Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami. July 1, 2016 In "News" By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari and other top government dignitaries have been given a commendation for supporting a newly wedded couple, Alhaji Abubakar Musa and Zainab Shehu Fodio, who recorded a successful wedding ceremony, at the weekend, in Sokoto. The appreciation which was contained in a statement… August 13, 2020 In "News" A Civil Society Organisation (CSO), Guardians of Democracy and Development (GODD), has urged the Senate to confirm the ministerial nomination of former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami to take President Muhammadu Buhari’s fight against corruption to the next level. July 26, 2019 In "News"