A middle-aged man whose name was simply given as Akpan shot his wife dead on allegation of infidelity before hanging himself over the weekend in Cross River State. The incident happened in the village of Bashua in Boki Local Government Area in the Central Senatorial District of the state where the man and his wife who are said to be indigenes of Akwa Ibom State sojourned to do farm work. A source in the village Elias Ejue told Vanguard that the couple had an argument following an accusation by the man that his wife was cheating on him and tempers flared leading the man to bringing out his gun to shoot the woman killing her on the spot. “After shooting his wife the man fled into the forest and we organized a search party since Saturday. It was on Monday that we found his body hanging on a tree in the forest”. Ejue said He narrated that the man and the wife had lived in the village for many years and have five boys before the ugly incident at the weekend and that it is a taboo for someone to kill another in the community or even commit suicide. “One of his hands was clutching a branch of the tree he committed suicide perhaps he had an afterthought and was trying to free himself. We buried him right on the spot where he hung himself in accordance to the tradition of our community ”. DSP Irene Ugbo, the Cross River State Police Command spokesman said she is yet to be briefed on the incident. “I will speak with the DPO of the area and get back to you”; she said Vanguard Ahmed Musa will today in Cross River State finalise his marriage to Juliet Ejue. The marriage is billed to hold in Ogoja local government of the state. July 1, 2017 In "News" TRAGEDY struck in the village of Liokom in Wanihem community, Yala Local Government Area of Cross River State on Wednesday 29th May when a man allegedly hacked off the head of his elder brother and villagers, in turn, buried him alive in the same grave with his victim. May 30, 2019 In "Metro" We have what we call love marriage where the man marries a woman he loves but the children from that marriage do not belong to the man but the wife June 10, 2018 In "Health"