Former housemate of Big Brother Naija Reality Show TV Season 5 “Lockdown”, Ozoemena Chukwu a.k.a Ozo, has expressed gratitude to his fans for their love and support in the house after his eviction. The former housemate, who took to his Instagram page @officialozo_ to appreciate his supporters, also stated that if he had not made them proud, they should understand that he is a human that could slip up here and there. He added that his fans gave him a chance to excel while he grabbed it with both hands and eyes on the prize. “GRATITUDE FOR ALL YOUR LOVE. “In life, we are given to make a difference and Big Brother Naija was that platform for me. “You gave your all to see that I made it this far and the truth is you all, my family, the Superions, in particular, are the reason why I made it this far and I’m forever grateful. “While I count on your support going forward, I hope that I have made many of you proud, maybe not. “In any case, please understand that I am human and bound to slip up here and there, rest assured that I will pick up and make the most of everything that is laid ahead of me. “Thank you to the #BBNaija organizers for treating me like a king. “Thank you to@BetwayNg and all sponsors for taking care of me for 9 weeks. “To everyone who stood by me, I am very grateful. “Thank you for your patience.
Thank you for your understanding.
Thank you for praying for me.
Thank you for standing by me and most importantly.
Thank you all for investing in me. “You have given me a chance to excel and I’m grabbing it with both hands and eyes on the prize. “I am Ozoemena Joseph Chukwu and I promise to give my best in the service of humanity. “God bless you all,” he wrote. Reports have it that Ozo’s eviction was announced during the live show on Sunday, Sept. 20 by the show host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, who said at least one or more of the nominated housemates would be evicted. He is the second of the four nominated housemates to be evicted in the ninth week of the show. Ozo and Trikytee were the two housemates to be evicted while Laycon and Dorathy were declared safe. Vanguard News By David Royal Ozo has been evicted from the Big Brother Naija Lockdown House. He is the second of the four nominated housemates to be evicted in the 9th week of the show. Ozo's eviction was announced during the live show on Sunday by the show host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, who… September 20, 2020 In "Entertainment" ...picks Nengi as Deputy By Ayo Onikoyi Another week, another Head of House (HoH) game. Ozo beat the other BBNaija Lockdown housemates to emerge HoH for the second time! Ozo is the first housemate to win the title twice and of course, he chose Nengi as his deputy. Same as… August 25, 2020 In "News" In just three months since the announcement of Big Brother Naija Season 4 was made, all that it represents has generated a lot of excitement and frenzy among viewers who are anticipating the next stars that will emerge from this competition. March 10, 2019 In "Entertainment"