President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday in Abuja told the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, to work diligently and ensure fairness in electoral processes, while returning governorship candidate of the party, Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, for the second term in office. The President, who presented the party’s flag to the candidate at the Presidential Villa, said the reconciliation process in the state branch of the party had provided a solid ground for an easier clear victory for the candidate than he achieved in his first term. In a statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu said while assuring Akeredolu of the party’s full support, the President said a peaceful and fair election that reflects the will of the people should be an uppermost concern. He urged adherence to the regulations of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, and protocols of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC. He noted that the party’s mechanism for resolving differences was most effective, and would be sustained to strengthen relationships, and project the objectives of the party as people-focused and development oriented. The APC candidate was presented to the President by the party’s Caretaker Committee Chairman, Mai Mala Buni, who is also the Governor of Yobe State. Vanguard News Nigeria. Though peaceful, last weekend’s governorship election in Ondo State was seen by many observers as a ‘bazaar’ in which the highest bidder got the lion share of the votes. But, whereas all the major political parties allegedly took part in the undemocratic game, the way the All Progressives Congress (APC)… December 4, 2016 In "News" By Levinus Nwabughiogu ABUJA-President Muhammadu Buhari has formerly endorsed Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu as the governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress for Ondo State in the forthcoming election. This was made known by Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State who formerly unveiled the candidate before the president in his office at… October 31, 2016 In "News" With protesters, yesterday, laying siege to the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in support and denunciation of the party’s recent primaries, Governors Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo) and Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), yesterday, denounced new narratives allegedly spun to pitch them against President Muhammadu Buhari. October 24, 2018 In "Headlines"