The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission has directed landlords to stop imposing outstanding electricity bills in an apartment on new tenants. The commission said this in a tweet on Thursday that “Landlord’s outstanding electricity bills cannot be enforced on a tenant. A judge recently ruled that the bills of a previous tenant cannot be enforced on a new customer. Send us details if you are in such a situation.” According to the Commissioner, Finance and Management Services, NERC, Nathan Shatti, “a Landlord’s outstanding electricity bills cannot be enforced on a tenant.” This he said was in agreement with a court ruling that the bill of a previous tenant cannot be enforced on a new customer. Recall that before this directive, a new tenant while moving into a new house takes on the outstanding electricity bill in the apartment. This practice has been a source of controversy in the country with distribution companies disconnecting customers who failed to comply But Shatti asked new tenants who are asked to pay the outstanding bills of their landlords to report the issue to the NERC for appropriate action. Mr Shatti stressed further that tenants who purchased meters with their own money would be reimbursed through an arrangement the NERC was about to make. There is a court order in force that has made the violation of the Nigerian capping policy a punishable offence. The capping policy stipulates that power Distribution Companies, DISCOs, disallowed from charging electricity consumers under the estimated billing system more than they do consumers with prepaid meters in the same vicinity. “An order was issued on capping in February. The capping order is still in force.DISCOs should take note. The Commission is doing everything to enforce compliance. We will do even more,” the commissioner said. Shatti told DISCOs to refrain from the illegitimate practice of taking money from customers without providing them with meter. “The intention of the regulation is that payment should not be made if meters are not available. Where you have, write to the Commission with your details.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Miss Pep Umeh, 27, who hails from Imo State came to Lagos five years ago. She lived with some friends in a multi-tenanted building popularly known in the Lagos parlance as ”face-me-I-face-you" or face-me-and- face-trouble” in the overcrowded Lagos Island Business District. August 10, 2011 In "Features" "No one saves us but ourselves. No one can, and no one may. We ourselves must walk the path "-BuddhaMore. THE biggest and deepest pain of the electricity consumer today is the issue of fraudulent bills by the electric power houses and suppliers in the name of DisCos. Our leaders… July 8, 2016 In "Viewpoint" WHY would you disconnect my light when I have already paid? Do you know what it means to pay N10,000 for light that I did not even consume? And you have the guts to ask me to pay another money. You even billed us for the pumping machine when you… October 29, 2014 In "Features"