THE Governorship candidate of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) and Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Hon Agboola Ajayi has predicted the defeat of both the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress(APC) in the governorship election in the state. Ajayi said the ruling APC in the state has failed the people with the lacklustre performance of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu while the PDP has no structure to win election in the state. Speaking after he received defectors from PDP in Okitipupa Local Government led by a governorship aspirant, Mr Banji Okunomo, former chairman of the local government, Mr Solomon Bitire and others, Ajayi said the APC has breached the zoning arrangement in the state and voters would punish it for it. The performance of Akeredolu according to him in the last three and half years has fallen short of people’s expectations as the governor has personalised government. The Deputy Governor said that the people would speak against Akeredolu with their votes in October 10 election because of the failure to meet the yearnings and aspirations of the people. Ajayi lauded Okunomo for displaying high level of patriotism, unlike others who he said equate their personal interests with that of the entire zone. “PDP and APC are dead in Ondo South. We can postpone burial ceremony, but you cannot wake up dead political parties.” In his remark, Okunomo said he resigned his membership of the PDP to join the ZLP in order to rescue the people from the misrule of Akeredolu. According to him, he would officially leave the party with over 15, 000 members of the PDP across the 18 local governments of Ondo State during a formal declaration to be announced later. “I contested with Ajayi in PDP. He was the newest in the PDP race and came second. He contested within three weeks. The youth have the opportunity now to elect one of us.’ “We don’t want someone who will increase the school fees. We don’t want a governor who will make life difficult for the people of Ondo State. “The PDP made the mistake of 2016 by presenting a candidate from a wrong zone. The PDP lost in 2016 and will lose in this election because it failed to look at the local content of zoning.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Dayo Johnson, The governorship candidate of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) and Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Hon Agboola Ajayi has predicted the defeat of both the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress(APC) in the governorship election in the state. Ajayi said the ruling APC in the state… September 8, 2020 In "Ondo election" Leading Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, governorship aspirant in Ondo State, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede, SAN, has expressed confidence that his party will defeat the incumbent, Govermor Rotimi Akeredolu and the All Progressives Congress, APC,  in the coming governorship election in the state. June 21, 2020 In "News" THE candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2016 governorship election Eyitayo Jegede SAN has said that the defected deputy governor, Hon Agboola Ajayi is not a threat to him winning the party's ticket on Wednesday. July 20, 2020 In "News"