Bus passengers nearly had a hissy fit after spotting a man wearing a huge snake instead of a face mask while riding a bus in Salford yesterday. Daily Mail UK reports that the man used the large reptile, which hung around his neck, as a face covering while boarding the Swinton to Manchester service at Salford precinct. Shocked passengers stared in astonishment as the man – clearly making fun of coronavirus restrictions including the compulsory wearing of coverings on public transport in England – removed the snake from around his neck. The reptile then wrapped itself around the hand rails as fellow bus riders described the surreal scene as ‘definitely entertaining’. A 46-year-old woman told the Manchester Evening News: ‘He had it wrapped around his face like a mask getting on the bus. ‘At first I thought he had a really funky mask on, then he let it crawl around the hand rails. No one was really bothered on the bus but a man behind took a video. ‘It was definitely entertaining.’ While some people are stretching the definition of ‘face covering’ to include reptilian creatures, others are being attacked for banning face masks in shops. Michael Schneider, 57, is being investigated by police for putting up a sign banning customers from wearing coverings inside his vintage tearoom in Chichester. The shopkeeper has also admitted that he will penalise mask-wearers by charging them if they put on a face mask ‘of their own volition’. A red doormat with white footprints also instructs customers to ‘stand here until you realise your Government is brainwashing you (You May Be Here Sometime)’. Mr Schneider alleges that the British public are ‘consenting to Government control’ by following Boris Johnson’s coronavirus restrictions, including the new draconian Rule of Six which came into force in England yesterday. Police are now investigating shopkeeper Mr Schneider after Chichester District Council was inundated with complaints about his sign. Mr Schneider claims council officers has ‘threatened to shut down his shop’ if he does not take the sign down – though the Council denies making such threats. Speaking to Metro, Mr Schneider said: ‘What’s happening now, where you can’t get more than six people in one place without having the police on you, that violates Article 20 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. ‘I’ve had the police around, I’ve had the Council round twice and they all want me to take my poster down and I’m not going to do it because it’s the truth.’ Daily Mail Vanguard News Nigeria By Harris Emanuel, Uyo Notwithstanding growing concerns over the economic challenges associated with the novel Covid 19 pandemic, Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom state has reiterated  commitment to  complete  major projects embarked upon by his administration. One of the multi-bilion naira projects is the state-of-the-art terminal building at Obong… September 15, 2020 In "News" An India forestry ranger found himself in a bind after a python briefly strangled him while he posed for pictures with the giant snake. June 18, 2018 In "Just Human" The Minister of Communications, Adebayo Shittu, has approved the appointment of Mr Bolaji Kazeem, as his new Special Assistant on Media. March 24, 2018 In "News"