The Commissioner of Police, FCT, CP Bala Ciroma, has ordered an investigation into the murder of one Ifeoma Abugu, a graduate of the Institute of Management and Technology, IMT, Enugu. Reports in the social media alleged that the deceased was sexually assaulted and murdered by the personnel of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, FCT Command, on September 10. The report alleged that three policemen invaded the home of Ifeoma’s fiancé, Afam Ugwunwa, at Wumba village in the Lokogoma district of Abuja to arrest him; did not meet him at home but arrested Ifeoma. DSP Anjuguri Manzah, Police Public Relations Officer for FCT Command confirmed that CP Ciroma ordered a post-mortem, as part of discreet investigations to unravel the true cause of her death. Ifeoma’s brother, Alex, alleged that the deceased, who had just concluded her National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, mandatory service, was arrested and killed four days after she had her ‘introduction’ with Ugwunwa in Enugu State. His words: “I was in Lagos when one of my junior brothers called me that he learned that SARS arrested our sister and she died in detention. “I just came to Abuja today (Sunday) and I have asked some of my uncles, who have been to the police station. “They said that the policemen alleged that they met my sister unconscious on the bed and they carried her to hospital, where she died.” Commenting further on the allegation, DSP Manzah said: “Consequent upon this, the Commissioner of Police, Bala Ciroma, has ordered a discreet investigation and post-mortem to unravel the true cause of death.” VANGUARD The Commissioner of Police FCT, CP Bala Ciroma, has ordered a discreet investigation into an unfortunate gunshot incident that led to the death of one Solomon Eze, 52 years old at Karimo on Sunday 10th May 2020 at about 6:00 pm. May 11, 2020 In "News" FOLLOWING the directive of the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu,directing a thorough investigation into his alleged assault of a sales girl and her nursing mother friend at a sex toy shopping Abuja, Senator Elisha Abbo, has given himself to the Federal Capital Territory,FCT Police Command. July 4, 2019 In "News" By Kingsley Omonobi Following the murder of a senior Police Officer, ASP Eric Isaiah and one Moses Emmanuel over land dispute by persons mobilized by the traditional ruler of Ushafa community, Alhaji Mohammed Baba and his secretary, Danlami Busa in Abuja, and injuries inflicted on other police personnel, the Commissioner… January 25, 2020 In "News"