AS a financial institution that is committed to enriching lives and impacting the society, Sterling Bank Plc has launched the “Grow With Sterling Initiative”. The initiative which finds its roots in one aspect of the Sterling HEART Sectors- Education, seeks to contribute to the educational development of young secondary school leavers. Understanding that an investment in knowledge pays the best interests, the bank recently signed an agreement with Washington DC-based Nexford University by sponsoring secondary school leavers in Nigeria to earn international undergraduate degrees under a maximum duration of three years. To also gain hands-on expertise, they will be concurrently engaged by Sterling Bank to serve in specific capacities in a work-study arrangement. According to a statement made available by the Chief Human Resources Officer of Sterling Bank Plc, Temi Dalley, the programme is part of the bank’s new-to-the-world opportunities for young Nigerians to get access to quality and affordable education while gaining cognate work experience. The statement further noted that the financial institution will pay not less than sixty-five percent tuition fee programme, marking a significant investment in the education of young Nigerians. In the statement, Dalley was quoted as saying, ‘Grow with Sterling’ initiative is a co-branded social impact program that will enable Nigerian secondary school leavers to further their education. In its bid to reduce the widening housing deficit in the country, Sterling Court Development, a Pubic Private Partnership Development initiative in collaboration with Lagos State Government through Agboyi-Ketu Local Council Development Area, in financial partnership with Sterling Bank Plc, is set to offer a solution to the acute housing… November 14, 2017 In "Homes & Property" The challenges in the education sector are so enormous that private institutions would need to lend the government a helping hand. Mr. Shina Atilola, Group Head, Strategy & Communications, Sterling Bank Plc in this interview explains what the Bank is doing to support the education sector. June 30, 2014 In "Business" Sterling Bank Plc, the one-customer bank has launched a new proposition known as, ‘One Woman’ to commemorate the International Women’s Day in Nigeria with the theme ‘Be Bold for Change.’ The product was launched by Mrs. Ifeyinwa Ighodalo, the Chief Executive Officer of DO.II Designs Limited and the wife of… March 13, 2017 In "Business"