Cybersecurity expert, Dr. Adewale Obadare, has been appointed the Chairman, Advisory Board of Cybersafe Foundation. The foundation is a non-governmental organization with the mission to facilitate a safer internet for everyone in Nigeria, with digital access. Obadare’s appointment means he will oversee the activities of the board and all sub-committees in the Foundation’s corporate governance manual. Obadare is a Co-Founder and Chief Operating Officer of Digital Encode Limited. He is a PAN-African CyberSecurity leader; a Fellow of the British Computer Society (FBCS); Institute of Management Consultants (FIMC); Institute of Information Management (FIIM); Institute of Brand Management (FIBM). He has an Honorarary Doctorate Degree in Cybersecurity from Trinity International University of Ambassadors Atlanta Georgia, United State of America. Commenting on the appointment, the Founder/Executive Director, Cybersafe Foundation, Confidence Staveley, said as the foundation aspires to become a very successful and impactful organisation, it recognises the need to tap from the knowledge, experience and insight of professionals like Obadare, hence his appointment. She said: “We are excited to welcome a seasoned cybersecurity leader, as the chairman of our advisory board. VANGUARD By Prince Osuagwu The National Information Technology Development Agency, NITDA, has licensed consulting and integration firm, Digital Encode, to provide training, auditing and consulting services throughout the country, in line with the Nigeria Data Protection Regulation, NDPR, principles. Digital Encode specialises in the design, management and security of business-critical networks,… April 30, 2020 In "News" Nigerian team will be flying African flag at this year’s CyberLympics, an international team-based Cybersecurity competition. October 9, 2012 In "Technology" To guide against security loopholes that could expose businesses to cyber vulnerabilities and attacks in the digital economy, one of the indigenous information security firm in the country, Digital Encode, has warned small and medium-scale enterprises against poor security in the digital economy. January 22, 2013 In "Technology"