 Arsenal winger Bukayo Saka has been nominated for the Professional Footballers’ Association Young Player of the Year, the PFA informed via their official website yesterday. Saka faces competition from Liverpool’s Trent Alexander-Arnold, Chelsea’s Tammy Abraham and Mason Mount, Manchester United’s Mason Greenwood and Marcus Rashford. Only players 21 or under on July 1, 2019, are eligible to be shortlisted for the Young Player of the Year prize. Saka enjoyed a breakout season with Arsenal, making 38 appearances in all competitions and produced a club-high twelve assists with four goals to his credit. He showed his versatility by playing in a variety of positions including left-back, left wing-back, left midfielder, left winger and right-winger. Tony Adams, Paul Merson, Nicolas Anelka, Cesc Fabregas and Jack Wilshere won the PFA Young Player of the Year award while representing Arsenal, and Saka will be hoping to follow in their footsteps. The winner of the PFA YPOTY will be revealed next Tuesday, September 8 Vanguard Virgil van Dijk faces competition from three Liverpool team-mates and two rivals from Manchester City to retain his PFA Players' Player of the Year award. Netherlands centre-back Van Dijk was the first defender to win the honour since John Terry in 2005 when he got the nod last year.… September 5, 2020 In "Sports" Liverpool right-back Trent Alexander-Arnold has seen off competition from a trio of Manchester United players to be crowned the Premier League's Young Player of the Season. The 21-year-old scored four goals and set up 13 more in a brilliant 2019-20 campaign that saw Liverpool end their 30-year wait for top-flight… August 14, 2020 In "Sports" England manager, Gareth Southgate has overlooked Arsenal’s Bukayo Saka in his squad for European Nations League, opening a window for the youngster to play for the Super Eagles of Nigeria. Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr was reported to have made contact with the player and his parents. But for now… August 28, 2020 In "Sports"