OPERATIVE of the Uyo Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has arrested three suspected land scammers and an Internet fraudster in Akwa Ibom State. According to a statement issued by the EFCC spokesman in Abuja, Wale Oyewale and obtained yesterday in Uyo said the suspects were arrested on September 3, 2020, through intelligence report. The statement noted that the suspected land scammers operate under the guise of providing their unsuspecting victims’ real estate services using the name of Royal Dream Estate. It stressed that the suspects operate by advertising serveral land for sale, using their Facebook page (Royal Dream Estate) which they are allegedly using to lure People to buy at choice areas. The statement reads, “The Uyo zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on September 3, 2020, arrested three suspected land scammers in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. The suspects are, Ubah Victor Gozie (25) an indigene of Abia State; Sunday Justice (24)and Okon Mark Uduak(female) 27years, both from Akwa-Ibom state. “They were arrested at their office, located on Oron road, directly Opposite the Akwa-Ibom state Water
Board. Their arrest was based on intelligence report, gathered by operatives of the Commission on how the suspects have been going about within the state, defrauding innocent indigenes of Akwa Ibom state, under the guise of providing them with real estate services, using the name, Royal Dream Estate. “Their modus operandi includes, advertising several lands for sale on their Facebook page (Royal Dream
Estate), and lure people to buy the lands often located at choice areas, at very cheap rates of not less
than N600, 000 (Six hundred thousand naira), and they proceed further to sell same land at same rates
to other buyers”. “Further investigations into the activities of the trio revealed that they have defrauded several persons
within the state, up to the tune of N9m (Nine million Naira)” The statement noted that several incriminating documents, including copies of fake Deed of Conveyance, two desktops, one Lexus ES 300 (Silver colour) with registration number, KLF 810 and many other fraudulent documents printed from their desktops were recovered from the suspects. It added that a 33- years- old suspected internet fraudster, identified as Omos Michael, who hails from Delta State was arrested at his residence located at Ikot Akpan-Abia, behind the Police Headquarters, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. “During questioning, Michael confessed that he is an Internet fraudster and that his area of specialisation was love scam, as he voluntarily confessed that he has made over N3m (Three million naira) through the illicit business”, the statement said. Vanguard News Nigeria The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) says it has arrested five suspected internet fraudsters in a sting operation in Uyo, Akwa Ibom. April 3, 2019 In "News" Uyo—Uyo Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, said it was getting help from Hong-Kong Police, Danish and Norwegian police, Israeli police, Austrian police, Swedish police and one Zambian police in their investigation of internet fraudsters. September 4, 2019 In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, in Rivers State, said its investigations have shown that some suspected cyber criminals funded the election of some prominent Nigerian politicians into political offices in the just concluded general election in the country. September 4, 2019 In "News"