Akwa Ibom State Government has urged church leaders in the state to set up  COVID-19 Protocols Enforcement Team in their churches. This, the government reasons is  to ensure strict compliance with COVID-19 safety guidelines and protocols. Secretary to the State Government and Chairman, COVID-19 Management Committee, Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem gave the charge while interacting with newsmen in Uyo, the state capital. Ekuwem, who frowned at some church leaders for not observing the safety guidelines in their respective churches, said the intra church enforcement team is aimed at making  worshippers obey simple COVID-19 protocols such as  wearing of face masks, social distancing,use of hand sanitizer and hand washing. “The state government monitoring teams will continue doing the monitoring,but every church must have its own intra church monitoring team to ensure compliance to COVID-19 guidelines,” SSG stated. The SSG therefore  warned that any church which violates the government directive would be sanctioned accordingly. Vanguard By Harris Emanuel - Uyo Akwa Ibom State government has condemned in strong terms attempt to use serological testing in the determination of a person’s COVID-19 status, saying it has  40 per cent chances of error and a further threat to health. Secretary to the State Government and Chairman, COVID-19… August 31, 2020 In "Health" By Chioma Onuegbu - Uyo Akwa Ibom state government has sealed off Christ Embassy Church, Nung Akpa Ime branch Uyo, for alleged attack on members of the joint monitoring team enforcing compliance of the guidelines approved for reopening of churches in the state. Chairman of the state COVID-19 Management Committee,… June 22, 2020 In "News" By Chioma Onuegbu, Uyo Akwa Ibom State government yesterday announced that it has dropped the charges Pastor Emmanuel Effiong of Christ Embassy Church, Nung Akpa Ime branch, Uyo. The State Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Udoh who disclosed this in a statement made available to newsmen yesterday in Uyo said… June 24, 2020 In "News"