THE Senior Special Assistant SSA to governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State on Political Matters in the Southern Senatorial districts, Hon Andrew Ogunsakin, has given a reason why he resigned his appointment from the state government. His resignation is coming barely 23 days to the governorship election in the state. Ogunsakin according to a reliable source would be defecting to the Zenith Labour party tomorrow during the flag-off campaign of its governorship candidate, Hon Agboola Ajayi in Ore area of the state. The former SSA in his letter dated 18th September to the governor said “the call of my constituents on me to join the train to actualise a common aspiration different from what is offered by your government and your party stands at the root of my decision to quit at this point. Ogunsakin added that “being an appointee, this will necessarily conflict with the performance of my duty to you hence my resignation. “l thank your Excellency for the opportunity afforded me to serve the good people of Ondo State as SSA, for the period I was in office. Recall that Ogunsakin was a close political associate of the immediate past governor, Dr Olusegun Mimiko. Ogunsakin was the Zenith Labour Party candidate for Okitipupa/Irele Federal constituency in the 2019 general election before he defected to the ruling All Progressive Congress and was appointed as SSA by Akeredolu. Vanguard Dr Olu Agunloye was a minister under the Obasanjo administration, after a stint in the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC). He is one of the trusted friends of the late Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Chief Bola Ige. September 16, 2012 In "Politics" The party leadership, at that level, has been able to isolate and victimize all those perceived to be antagonistic to pernicious expansionist tendencies May 5, 2019 In "Politics" Kekemeke, lji declare support for Akeredolu reelection Dayo Johnson - Akure LESS than 24 hours after emerging as the All Progressive Congress, APC, governorship candidate in Ondo State, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu yesterday paid an unscheduled visit to three of his co-aspirants to seek reconciliation. Those visited to seek reconciliation include… July 21, 2020 In "Politics"