Mali’s former president Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, ousted recently in a coup, has left the hospital. He had been treated for a mini-stroke. According to a member of his entourage, Keita left hospital on Thursday evening. He may now head to the United Arab Emirates for further treatment, the source added. Keita was forced out of office on August 18 by young military officers who staged an uprising at a base near Bamako, the capital, before heading into the city, where they seized Keita and other leaders. Pressure from the regional bloc, ECOWAS, led to his release on August 27 from the hands of the Junta that seized him. But he was still placed under surveillance in his residence in Bamako until he was admitted to a private hospital on Tuesday. Keita, 75 years old is thought to have suffered a transient ischaemic attack. He still had about three years left in his second term as president before being ousted, a dramatic twist to several months of increased opposition against his administration. NAN Vanguard The head of Mali's new junta on Thursday visited the man he ousted, Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, at a hospital where the former president is being treated for a mini-stroke, family and medical sources said. "A delegation from the ruling military, led by Colonel Assimi Goita, visited (the) former president in… September 3, 2020 In "Foreign" A West African delegation visiting Mali to push for a speedy return to civilian rule following a coup said it was "very hopeful" on Saturday after meeting with the country's military junta and the president it ousted. The head of the delegation from the regional ECOWAS bloc, former Nigerian president… August 23, 2020 In "News" West African envoys met with Mali's military junta on Saturday to try to push for a speedy return to civilian rule after a coup in the troubled nation. The delegation, headed by former Nigerian president Goodluck Jonathan, held talks for half an hour with soldiers who seized power on Tuesday,… August 22, 2020 In "Foreign"