The Facebook CEO lost his grip on the No. 3 spot this week after Tesla boss Elon Musk’s wealth soared to new heights, capping a rally that has seen him add a mind blowing $87.8 billion to his fortune this year. Musk worth $115.4 billion now trails only Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and Microsoft’s Bill Gates in the wealth rankings. Bezos’ net worth recently topped $200 billion, while Gates is worth $124.8 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Zuckerberg, who recently became a centabillionaire, is worth $110.8 billion. Musk has seen his fortune grow more than anyone else this year, narrowly beating out Bezos, whose own net worth is up $87.6 billion as stuck-at-home consumers have turned to Amazon for all their shopping needs. Tesla’s shares have been on a dizzying rally this year that has seen the company’s market cap more than quadruple. The electric automaker on Monday underwent a 5-for-1 stock split, sending its share price up more than 12 percent. Tesla’s market cap now sits at $457.4 billion. Tesla became the world’s most valuable carmaker by market capitalization when it overtook former front-runner Toyota on July 1. The company now accounts for more than 40 percent of the total market cap of a group of 12 of the world’s largest automakers. NY Post Vanguard Forget Bernie Sanders, billionaires’ biggest enemy right now is the coronavirus. The world’s five richest people finished their worst week ever in terms of dollars lost on Friday, hemorrhaging a combined $36.5 billion as the spread of the epidemic punished stocks and stoked worries about a global recession. That’s a… February 29, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Amazon founder Jeff Bezos on Thursday became the world's richest person, as a jump in the share price of the US tech giant enabled him to overtake Microsoft founder Bill Gates, Forbes magazine estimated. July 27, 2017 In "News" Amazon chief Jeff Bezos is now the world's richest person, having snatched the top spot from Microsoft founder Bill Gates who slips to second place, according to Forbes magazine's annual billionaires list published Tuesday. March 6, 2018 In "Business"