The Federal Government has assured Nigerians aiming to get their own housing accommodation to keep hope alive because its determination to provide affordable housing was realizable. The Managing Director and Chief Executive of the Federal Housing Authority, FHA, Senator Gbenga Ashafa, who gave the assurance during the official handing over of house keys to the National Housing Fund, NHF,  beneficiaries at Belham Estate, Karasana, Abuja, said, said the government was ready to provide adequate funding for housing development. The estate was built by BAM Estate Holdings with the support from the Federal Housing Authority Mortgage Bank, FHAMB. Senator Ashafa, however, cautioned Nigerians against criticizing the Federal Government’s policies and programmes on housing without patronizing them. Ashafa, who said the FG was committed to affordable housing, said adequate funding would hasten the process. He, however, called on Nigerians to form cooperative societies with a view to hastening access to the housing mortgage packages and assured that the facility is available to all working-class Nigerians irrespective of status. He said: “It has been demonstrated in what we are seeing now. We have to do a lot of awareness to let Nigerians know that you can’t sit in your house and complain that nothing is forthcoming to you. “Hope you be kept alive and if you want to try me, you should go through a cooperative society that has applied for a mortgage loan and see whether you will benefit or not. “We are asking Nigerians just to test the water. Even if you have financial incapability to an extent, something can be worked out for you in a manner that its extension will be beneficial. “Nobody is saying that you will buy the house free of charge. I want to congratulate the present administration for finding a room to assist Nigerians in this area.” In his remarks, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria, FMBN, Arch. Ahmed Musa Dangiwa, called on private developers to key into the FG’s funding for Mortgaged housing either through his bank or FHAMB. Also, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of FHAMB, Hayatuddeen Atiku Awwal, said his agency is a business entity that is committed to the provision of the affordable housing in Nigeria. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Chris Ochayi - Abuja The Federal Government, Thursday, directed the agencies responsible for providing housing to work assiduously to ensure that the challenge of housing gaps in Nigeria is addressed. Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, who gave the directive during the inauguration of the Executive Management… August 13, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has reiterated its commitment to the provision of affordable housing for Nigerians in partnership with the private sector. Vice President Yemi Osibanjo stated this in his keynote address at the 2015 Abuja Housing Show & Housing Development Awards, in Abuja, with the theme: “Delivery of Affordable Housing:… July 13, 2015 In "News" The newly appointed Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Federal Housing Authority of Nigeria, Senator Gbenga Ashafa has expressed commitment to ensure a vigorous implementation of the Federal Government's housing policy which entails the provision of mass affordable housing for millions of Nigerians. August 7, 2020 In "News"