The governor of Rivers State and the Edo Guber Election Campaign Council Chairman, Nyesom Wike, has said the All Progressive Congress (APC) is satisfied with the voting process in Edo State so far. Wike through his Commissioner for Information and Communications, Paulinus Nsirim, via his twitter handle and Facebook page posted; “there was minimal violence recorded because of the proactive measures deployed by the security agencies”. According to him; “there was need for both the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies to ensure that nothing scuttles the remaining stages. “Like I have said before, election is not only about voting, the votes should be counted, then you proceed to collation stages; ward, local and state government levels. The collation stage is the critical period. “So, I urge both INEC and security agencies to protect all the collation centres. When that is done, everybody who has voted will be happy to see that their will has prevailed,” he said. The governor said when an electoral process is transparent with less violence and disenfranchisement, every participating political party will gladly accept its outcome. “This may likely be the best election ever conducted in the history of Nigeria. But they must allow the process to continue to the end. Otherwise, they will destroy it. “If it is APC that has won, let it be so. If it is PDP that has won, let it also be so. But I must tell that we are happy with what we have got. “We have field report of results of over 2,000 polling units. It shows clearly that PDP is leading. “I want to commend INEC so far. They have made sure that people voted in their various polling units. “I want to also commend the security agencies so far, for also making sure that there were no much violence,” he added. EDO GUBER: WE ARE SATISFIED WITH VOTING PROCESS https://t.co/pNYG6SYekm pic.twitter.com/UyEoAV8bjP — Gov N E Wike Information. (@GovWike) September 20, 2020  Vanguard News Nigeria. GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike has urged the United State (US) and United Kingdom (UK) to name the Nigerians both nations have slammed travel ban for promoting rigging of elections in Nigeria. September 17, 2020 In "Politics" …Early scores appear too close to call …Obaseki, Ize-Iyamu, Oshiomhole, Shaibu win polling units …PDP alleges plots to replace Edo North results …APC, PDP bicker over shootings in Urhonigbe, Owan West …INEC confirms violence, hitches, may take drastic action …Skirmishes in 6 LGAs By Clifford Ndujihe, Kingsley Omonobi, Henry Umoru,… September 20, 2020 In "Edo elections" GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike is gradually coasting to widely anticipated second term victory as the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, resumed results collation on the Rivers state governorship and state assemblies elections it suspended earlier. April 3, 2019 In "News"