The Federal Government has approved the restart of league matches but without spectators at the stadiums in a move to ease the restrictions over the coronavirus, the government said. The Nigerian league was suspended in March with 13 rounds of matches to go following the outbreak of the pandemic. “Restriction is removed on outdoor communal (non-contact)sports and use of recreational parks for supervised physical exercise and sporting leagues to resume with no fans in stadiums,” said Sani Aliyu, the coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19 late Thursday. There have been calls for the resumption of the league following a gradual easing of the lockdowns imposed in the wake of the virus. Officials have announced that a new league season would start later this month or in October. “We now have good examples around the world of how to play the game post-COVID and so the lifting of the ban on sporting activities is timely and most welcome,” said FA chairman, Adam Mouktar Mohammed. “We believe we can still play safe while also saving the livelihoods of those who depend on football in the country.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The chairman of Adamawa United Football Club on Friday criticised the planned restart of the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) season as the number of coronavirus cases continues to rise. COVID-19 has infected more than 7,000 people and claimed 211 lives in Nigeria, Africa's most populous nation of 200 million… May 22, 2020 In "Sports" Ahead the 2020/21 season of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), indications are that the Clubs are determined to substantially comply with the provisions of the Club Licensing Requirements. The League Management Company (LMC) had on August 6 sent a memo to all the 20 clubs with the Confederation of… August 27, 2020 In "Sports" The Nigeria Football Federation, NFF will provide support for Clubs in the Nigeria Professional Football League, Nigeria National League, Nigeria Women Football League and the Nigeria Nationwide League for next season’s football campaign, as a result of challenges that have arisen from the COVID-19 pandemic, says the Federation’s President, Amaju… July 17, 2020 In "Sports"