The Personal Assistant to Senator Chukwuka Utazi, Charles Ogbuanya, has described as laughable purported protest against the lawmaker by some women in Nsukka, Enugu State. Ogbuanya also faulted the online report that 700 women protested against the Senator representing Enugu North Senatorial District and his colleague in the House of Representatives. He explained that the 20 women that yielded to the temptation of money to participate in the protest were drafted to the venue after a prayer session that had hundreds of women participants drawn from various communities in the area. He noted that no woman leader in the area participated in the protest, and women from Uzo Uwani LGA, where the Senator hailed from, unanimously dissociated themselves from the protest. Ho said: “Some of the women later confessed that they were given money to bear the placards. The fact that no political office holders in Nsukka Local Government or PDP ranking officials came out to receive these ‘protesters’ showed the insignificant nature of the exercise. “The report that large number of women participated in the protest is deliberate mischief by those bent on discrediting the Senator in an attempt to tar his political profile.” Ogbuanya​ said the scathing attacks against the Senator in recent times were politically motivated by some individuals, who felt threatened by the overwhelming grassroots support enjoyed by Utazi across communities in Enugu North. According to him, Senator Utazi endeared himself to the people of Enugu North Constituency through several life-changing projects that transformed the area. His words: “Senator Utazi does not buy support with money. He is a lawyer, a gentleman that plays politics by the rule. “His style of leadership is to use public fund to work for the people.  It is not surprising that some people who are not comfortable with his prudence are asking him to drop the Bible. “These self-seeking individuals want the money in their pockets and resort to name-calling and smear campaign because the lawmaker insists on doing things right.” Ogbuanya said an attempt to tarnish the image of the lawmaker would fall like a pack of cards because several landmark projects in the area bear his name. He said Senator Charles Ogbuanya wouldn’t engage in any popularity contest with anyone, and would not allow interested fellows seeking political relevance in 2023 elections to distract him from focusing on the delivery of democratic dividends to the people of his constituency. VANGUARD By Ikechukwu Odu - Nsukka There was uneasy calm at the Nsukka Local Government headquarters of Enugu State on Monday following a protest by Enugu North Senatorial District Women Forum, ENSDWF, over an alleged poor performance of some federal lawmakers from the area. The women group numbering over 700 challenged… September 15, 2020 In "News" By Henry Umoru For over 10 minutes on Tuesday, Senators Ifeanyi Ubah and Chukwuka Utazi were locked in a shouting match over disparaging comments made by some Nigerians over Innoson Vehicles chief executive, Chief Innocent Chukwuma. It took the intervention of the Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor… July 15, 2020 In "Politics" ABUJA—It was a rowdy session yesterday on the floor of the Senate over the status of Anambra State as an oil producing area as three senators from three different states were engaged in exchange of words. April 13, 2018 In "News"