The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Tuesday advised the Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Ahmed Bola Tinubu, to leave Godwin Obaseki, the gubernatorial candidate of the party alone and face his (Tinubu) political woes in APC. Tinubu had warned Edo people to ignore, and reject Obaseki, noting that he (Obaseki) does not deserve to be voted as a democratic leader. Reacting to his viral video, PDP through its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said Tinubu violated all tenets of democracy by attempting to arrogate to himself supremacy powers, lord over the people of Edo state and dictate their choice of leadership. The statement reads thus: “It is indeed pathetic and derisory that Asiwaju is claiming to be the leader of all democrats in Nigeria, which obviously he is not, while at the same time violating the fundamental of democracy, which is allowing a people to freely chose their leaders without confrontations with lies, coercion, mudslinging, slanders and beguiling as exhibited in his amateur video. It smacks of unpardonable hypocrisy that an individual who claims to be a democrat will at the same time chose to sit in the comfort of his residence to insult the people of Edo state over their manifest choice of Governor Godwin Obaseki as their preferred leader, for another term of four years, due to his sterling democratic qualities and performance in office. Asiwaju cannot be claiming to be a democrat while campaigning for an individual that has already been rejected by the people of Edo state, having been exposed by none other than the former national chairman of his party, Adams Oshiomhole, as a thief, fake pastor, acid bather, a person of questionable character who is only fit for “night meetings” and should not be trusted with the position of the governor of Edo state. We know that Asiwaju is desperate to re-launch himself  into relevance but can someone who wants the nation to believe that he is a democrat be campaigning alongside self-confessed liar, who has been rejected by his kinsmen and suspended as national chairman of his party, all in the quest to install a stooge in office? Asiwaju must be reminded that Edo state is not part of his fiefdom and that the needless sanctimonious pomposity which he displayed in the broadcast will never sway the people. This is because Edo state is home to very eminent and exceedingly intelligent personalities including highly revered royal fathers, religious and community leaders, astute public administrators, outstanding politicians and captains of industry, who are not ready to alter their resolve for Governor Obaseki. If anything, Asiwaju’s broadcast has again exposed an imperialist agenda against the Edo people, a development that has further strengthened the resolve of the people of Edo state to permanently put an end to political godfatherism, which Asiwaju represents in the Nigerian political firmament Furthermore, without conceding to Asiwaju’s jejune argument, we ask, what contribution to democracy did he found in President Muhammadu Buhari when he presented him, then as General Buhari, to Nigerians ahead of the 2015 presidential election? Moreover, Nigerians are gradually seeing through Asiwaju’s claims of having fought for democracy as mere myth. The true heroes of democracy include the founding fathers of our party and the regular people of Nigeria, who unlike most self-acclaimed leaders of democrats, never sneaked out of the shores of our country but stood firm to the very end. Our party had severally cautioned Asiwaju Tinubu to steer clear of our candidates and desist from infantile attention seeking in a political dispensation that have moved beyond unnecessary ego trips. The people of Edo state had since made up their minds to re-elect Governor Obaseki and APC leaders such as Asiwaju, in their vanity should come to terms with that.” Vanguard By Dirisu Yakubu The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has said it is amused by the conduct of All Progressives Congress, APC, national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu  who is a video tasked Edo voters to reject Governor Godwin Obaseki Tinubu in the said video also described Governor Obaseki as a dictator.… September 15, 2020 In "News" By Gabriel Enogholase - Benin Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo has called on the former governor of Lagos State and National Leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to leave Gov Godwin Obaseki and Edo Politics alone. Chairman of the PDP state campaign council, Chief Dan… August 8, 2020 In "News" By Nwafor Sunday The leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Bola Tinubu, Tuesday advised the people of Edo to reject the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Godwin Obaseki, noting that he (Obaseki) does not deserve their votes. Disclosing this in a sponsored broadcast on TVC, the former… September 15, 2020 In "News"