In preparation for possible re-opening of Schools, Akwa Ibom State Government has trained 2,234 basic School Administrators on COVID-19 prevention protocols in centres across the ten Federal Constituencies in the State. The Secretary to State Government, Dr, Emmanuel Ekuwem while declaring the training open in Uyo said the safety and wellbeing of the pupils, students and teachers is important, hence the seminar to expose School Managers to the precautionary measures of COVID-19 pandemic. Ekuwem who is also the State Chairman, COVID-19 Management Committee, appreciated the State Universal Basic Education Board for organising the exercise. “The State Government is committed to checkmate the spread of the deadly virus, the very reason Governor Udom Emmanuel has ensured the erection of a world-class isolation centre and other measures to combat the pandemic in our State”, Ekuwem said. In her welcome address earlier, the Chairman, State Universal Basic Education Board, Prof Maria Ikorok explained that the Board carefully selected experts as resource persons, for the training as the government has started planning to get children back to school. She particularly commended the Governor for his proactive approach to the control of the novel Coronavirus in the State and for his passion towards improving quality of Basic Education in the State, noting that the training was packaged by SUBEB in collaboration with the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) Abuja. She said, “This passion is evidenced in the timely payment of the 50percent counterpart fund for UBE Matching Grant Intervention Projects, which has made it possible for the construction and renovation of classroom blocks, provision of instructional materials and equipment in the Basic Education sub-sector. “I also applaud the Governor for initiating the School-on-Radio programme to engage the children while at home. It has been very impactful. And the teachers who took part in the School-on-Radio presentations and recordings during the lockdown deserve commendation” In her brief remarks, the Commissioner for Education, Mrs Enobong Mbobo called on the participants to accord the lecturers maximum attention, stressing that their ability to comprehend the content of the lecture is a determinant to the safety of our pupils, students and teachers when school re-opens. Vanguard. GOVERNOR Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom state has directed the slashing of salaries of all his political appointees by 20 per cent due to the dwindling revenue occasioned by the drop in the price of oil. May 19, 2020 In "News" * Says 66 contacts traced to index case have no symptoms BY Chioma Onuegbu, Uyo Akwa Ibom state government has explained that six cases of COVID-19 have been returned negative and discharged from the state isolation centre at the Ibom Specialist hospital Uyo. Chairman of the State COVID-19 committee and… April 15, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Harris Emanuel - Uyo Akwa Ibom State government says it has conducted 1,721 COVID-19 test in the state. Of the numbers, 250 confirmed cases were recorded, while the total number of recoveries stood at  208, the total number of active cases was 34 and 8 died from the illness.… August 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"