The All Progressives Congress, APC, National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Saturday, said that the blood that runs through his veins is the same blood that runs in every Nigerian veins. Tinubu who paid a condolence visit to Senator Aliyu Wamakko (APC- Sokoto) on the demise of his daughter, Sadiya Aliyu, called for unity, noting that the country could achieve nothing without unity. Recall that former President Olusegun Obasanjo had said that Nigeria is fast drifting to a failed and divided country, noting that mismanagement of diversity and socio-economic development is one of the major reasons behind the country’s ordeal. His words: “Today, Nigeria is fast drifting to a failed and badly divided state, economically our country is becoming a basket case and poverty capital of the world, and socially, we are firming up as an unwholesome and insecure country. “And these manifestations are the products of recent mismanagement of diversity and socio-economic development of our country. “Old fault lines that were disappearing have opened up in greater fissures and with drums of hatred, disintegration and separation and accompanying choruses being heard loud and clear almost everywhere. “It would appear that anybody not dancing to the drum beat nor joining in chorus singing would be earmarked as ethnically unpatriotic or enemy of its tribe or geographical area. In short, the country is fast moving to the precipice. “But happily, I observed that the five socio-cultural political groups gathered here have been getting together to find common ground, areas of agreement or accord for moving Nigeria away from tipping over. “Before continuing, let me say that we must remind those who are beating the drums of disintegration and singing choruses of bitterness, anger and separation that if even Nigeria is broken up, the separated parts will still be neighbours. And they will have to find accommodation as neighbours or they will be ever at war. And those who prevent justice to be done invite violence to reign.” Harping on unity, former Lagos state governor opined: “We have to unite to develop our country. The blood that runs in my veins is the same blood that runs in every Nigerian veins. “Whether I am Yoruba and you are Fulani, Hausa or Igbo, the essence of our life is that we are Nigerians. “Therefore, we should always dwell and take Nigeria first in everything we do for the good of our country,” he said. Vanguard Twelve founding members of the All Progressives Congress, APC have weighed in on the crisis in the party, challenging a former governor of Lagos state and national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to call Comrade Oshiomhole to order. June 11, 2020 In "Politics" AHEAD of 2019, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youths have tasked President Muhammadu Buhari to break his silence and tell Nigerians if he has a power hand-over accord with the National leader of the ruling APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. August 28, 2018 In "News" NATIONAL President, Vanguard for Transparent Leadership and Democracy, VATLAD, Comrade Emmanuel Igbini, yesterday berated National leader of the All Progressive Congress, APC, Alhaji Bola Tinubu over what he described as misplaced atta‎ck on Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr Ibe Kachikwu in view of the lingering fuel scarcity in… April 2, 2016 In "News"