Kidnappers suspected to be notorious bandits have abducted three children of Zamfara State Sub-treasurer, Alhaji Yusuf Marafa, noting that his neighbour in Nahuche community of the Bungudu Local Government Area of the  State was equally killed in the process. According to insiders, the kidnapped children are Mansur Yusuf, Sa ’adu Yusuf and Anas Yusuf, while his neighbour, Malam Kamalu Nahuche, was shot dead by the notorious armed bandits. One indigene of the area who identified himself as Alhaji Dahiru, told Vanguard that the kidnappers, who were on many motorcycles, drove into the community and went straight to the sub – treasurer’s house , where they whisked away the three children. His neighbour, Kamalu, was reportedly shot dead as he came out of his house. Dahiru narrated that the bandits had also entered into the house of one Ibrahim Maishago, who is a businessman , in an attempt to kidnap his children. “They discovered some large sum of money in the house, which they took away with them along with the children. When  contacted, the state Police Command ’s Public Relations Officer, SP Muhammad Shehu, confirmed the incident saying that armed policemen had already been deployed to the affected area to restore normalcy and peace. He, however, assured the community people that the security agencies would do everything within their power to maintain peace and harmony not only in the area but in the state in general He appealed to the people to remain law-abiding which he said can revive peace in the state with the efforts of the security agencies in Zamfara state. Vanguard News Nigeria. The federal government of Nigeria this week announced the suspension of mining activities in Zamfara state to check the activities of bandits and criminals who have made the state a by word for impudent criminality. April 13, 2019 In "News" "WE were told to hide our arms because security operatives were coming. We heeded the call by hiding our arms. We saw some people coming towards us, we thought they were the operatives, not knowing that they were bandits. They started shooting sporadically. Before anyone could run to carry arms,… May 6, 2019 In "Headlines" WHAT could have resulted in a repeat of the Chibok and Dapchi school girls’ abductions was averted in Zamfara State on Wednesday night when bandits stormed Government Girls Comprehensive Secondary School, Moriki in Zurmi Local Council of Zamfara State. May 3, 2019 In "Headlines"