Ifeoma Abugu, who was allegedly raped and murdered by   personnel of Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, while in detention at the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, a fortnight ago was said to have jilted her boyfriend of many years. Recall that Abugu was arrested and whisked away from her new  fiance’s apartment at Wumba village, Lokogoma, Abuja  September 10, 2020 by suspected SARS personnel, only to be reported dead at the  Gwagwalada Specialist Hospital, in the Federal Capital Territory, next day. However, when Vanguard visited the deceased’s country home, in  Ugbaike,  Igbo-Eze North Local Government Area of Enugu,  yesterday, a community source, who pleaded anonymity, revealed that  that she disappointed her boyfriend of many years. The source further disclosed that the deceased was trained at the Institute of Management and Technology, IMT, Enugu, by one Chidi Abugu, who also opened a business for her with the promise that they would get married after her  National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, programme. However, according to the source, things took a different turn when she was posted to Abuja for her youth service,  she started a new relationship with one Afam, who hails from Anambra State and allegedly abandoned Abugu, who saw her through tertiary education. Vanguard further gathered that the deceased had already started marriage counselling programme with her new lover and was billed for marriage by December before the cruel hands of fate caught up with her. It was also learnt that Ugwunwa had already gone for marriage introduction to the family of his late lover four days before she was murdered. Meanwhile, her mother, a widow, is yet to be informed of her daughter’s death. Brother’s lamentation While reacting to his sister’s death, her brother, who identified himself as Alex, said he dashed off to Abuja from Lagos when he heard the sad news. According to him,  “When I asked  some of my uncles, who have been to the police station, they said the policemen claimed  they met my sister unconscious on the bed and they rushed her to the hospital where she died. “Her  fiancee was not home when she was arrested. He said he contacted someone he knew at the SARS office to help  facilitate her release, but that the person was unable to do it that night. He said he  gave the woman money the following day to help facilitate her  release, only to be told  that  Ifeoma was dead. “When my uncles saw the picture of her corpse, there were signs that she was sexually assaulted. We are waiting for the autopsy result to ascertain what happened to her. SARS officers on illegal duty Lawyer to the bereaved family, as reported by BBC Pidgin,  stated that  three of the operatives were discovered to be  on illegal duty on that day, as they had no permission from their superior to carry out that operation. But the operatives denied raping and killing Ifeoma. Rather, they reportedly told the bereaved family that she could have died of overdose of cocaine. They claimed rather that they found her dead in her lover’s apartment on the day they went to effect her arrest and  decided to take her to a hospital in Maitama, where they were told there was no bed space. They  claimed to have immediately rushed her to the  Gwagwalada Teaching Hospital for treatment where doctors pronounced her dead on arrival. But the family’s lawyer disagreed with the explanation, arguing that there was no labouratory  scientists to confirm whether cocaine was found on her on not, adding that the police were only trying to bury the truth. He, therefore, appealed to the  Inspector-General of Police to ensure the matter was thoroughly investigated and the killers brought to book. Autopsy controversy Meanwhile, the deceased’s elder brother, Alex Abugu, who is based in Lagos, said since he arrived in Abuja, the Police had not allowed him to see his sister’s corpse. Abugu said he had never known his late sister to finish a bottle of alcoholic beverage, let alone being into hard drugs. He revealed that investigations, including the autopsy, would cost the family about N600,000 and alleged that SARS officials initially requested half the amount from the family, until the intervention of the FCT Police in charge of the case, who said  SARS would bear the entire cost. Meanwhile, the three SARS officers, who carried out the operation,  have been arrested and are currently being investigated. Vanguard The Commissioner of Police, FCT, CP Bala Ciroma, has ordered an investigation into the murder of one Ifeoma Abugu, a graduate of the Institute of Management and Technology, IMT, Enugu. September 22, 2020 In "Metro" Recently, there have been harvest of tragic deaths at Igbo-Eze North Local Government Area of Enugu State. August 14, 2019 In "News" During the colonial era, the police force was set up to oppress and intimidate the Nigerian people, coerce and extort taxes from them and prevent them from challenging the ruthless exploitation of the human and natural resources of the country by the British colonial regime. For instance, not less than… June 21, 2018 In "Politics"