CHAIRMAN of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), Dr Kayode Fayemi, has reconciled feuding factions within the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State. The meeting which held at Prince Sijuade Street, Jericho, Ibadan, had in attendance many chieftains of the party. The meeting which lasted about three hours was attended by   different groups in the party. They include SENACO, Lamist and Unity groups. Several members of the party called it quits with the party after the controversial primary that preceded the 2019 elections. According to the Convener of the meeting, Dr Fayemi, he said, “Part of the reasons we held the meeting today is that there was a directive, following the successful meeting held in Abuja, that an expanded meeting should take place in Ibadan”. He said, “Naturally, there will be people who would feel that they should be in the meeting. I have a very small house, as you can see, I can’t accommodate more than a sizeable number and I have to follow COVID-19 protocol.  So, basically that was what informed the number. It’s not an attempt to denigrate any member. All our members are important”. “But the leaders are here, and they are of one voice. As you heard Otunba Alao-Akala said, there is no victor and there is no vanquished. All is settled. “We are now a united front as a party, moving strongly towards retaking Oyo State, and working in the interest of progressive politics.” “Maybe because I am not from Oyo State, I am not aware of any group. I am aware of stakeholders in our party, some who for one reason or the other had felt that certain things ought to have been done in order to bring everybody on board. And that is what we have done. And they were all here. Every segment of our party came to the meeting today.” Fayemi noted further that APC would oust the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2023 in the state. “Governor Makinde is my very good friend and brother. As you know, I am Chairman of the Governors’ Forum, I can’t campaign against the sitting governor. ”But this is about my party. And I have a national assignment. I am not the one that will remove him. Oyo State members of our party have come together and they are not selling groundnuts.” Those at the meeting included Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, Chairman of Nigerian Communication Commission, Prof Adeolu Akande; Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Sunday Dare; Chief Adebayo Adelabu, former gubernatorial candidate of the party in the 2019 election, former Minister of Communication, Alhaji Adebayo Shittu; Chief Adeniyi Akintola (SAN); Senator Olufemi Lanlehin, and many others. Vanguard News Nigeria. Ola Ajayi - Ibadan Several aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State who have agreed to bury their differences have vowed to unseat the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the next election. The chieftains of the party took the decision yesterday in Ibadan during a… September 17, 2020 In "Politics" THE breakaway faction of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Oyo State, under the auspices of Unity Forum, has said it had no regret that the party suffered a serious electoral defeat in the presidential and governorship elections  held in the state. March 26, 2019 In "News" GOVERNORS from the South West geo-political zone will converge in Ibadan, Oyo State to address the security challenges confronting the region. June 24, 2019 In "News"