Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, has disclosed that over 1,500 COVID-19-related calls were received and processed through the Commission’s Emergency Communications Centres, ECCs, in the peak of the pandemic in Nigeria. The EVC made this disclosure during the commissioning of the ECC in Owerri, Imo State over the weekend by the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami. The event which was hosted by the Executive Governor of the State, Sen. Hope Uzodimma, had in attendance, the Chairman, NCC Board of Commissioners, Prof. Adeolu Akande; Chief Uche Onwude, NCC Board Member; Mr. Kashifu Inuwa Ibrahim, Director General of the National Information Technology Development Agency, NITDA, among other dignitaries. According to Danbatta, “During the total lockdown occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, the ECCs played a remarkable role by providing a platform for members of the public to seek lifesaving information or support and reporting COVID-19 related cases by dialling ‘112’ from any of the networks. I am happy to report to you that over 1,500 COVID-19-related calls were received and processed by the ECCs in the peak of the pandemic.” The EVC said the ECC project, equipped with necessary Information Technology (IT) tools and personnel, is a one-stop shop through which members of the public can access help from any response agency, stating that the centre is essentially aimed at enhancing the security of lives and property of the citizens. While restating the Commission’s commitment to operationalise the ECCs in all the 36 states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, the EVC said 19 ECCs have been activated so far. “We have no doubt that, if put to maximum use, and kept functional at all times, the ECC facilities will serve to complement the State Government’s efforts at enhancing the security of lives and property of citizens,” Danbatta said. VANGUARD •Why Pantami, Danbatta must work together •How Telcos’demands could be met •What NCC”s order on collocation may achieve By Prince Osuagwu, Hi-Tech Editor President Muhammadu Buhari, overlooked the melodrama between the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr  Ibrahim Pantami, the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC,… April 1, 2020 In "Technology" By Prince Osuagwu, Hi-Tech Editor The present Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, appears to be over-reaching itself on matters of telecom regulation. Its officials also appear to be biting off more than they can chew, negating relevant laws that clearly define the relationship between the ministry and the Nigerian… March 25, 2020 In "Technology" At a time insurgency and security issues appear to be the bane of the country’s economic growth, the efforts of the Nigerian Communications, Commission, NCC and its CEO, Prof Umar Danbatta have been brought to light as the way forward to a secured Nigeria. December 11, 2019 In "Technology"