Outgoing President of the UN General Assembly (PGA), Amb. Tijani Muhammad-Bande has highlighted some critical lessons from COVID-19. He told Newsmen in New York that the pandemic had further underscored the need for concerted efforts to bridge the global technological gap. Muhammad-Bande referenced a UN report indicating that 463 million school children, mostly from developing countries, lack access to remote learning. The report says the number represents nearly a third of the world’s 1.5 billion school children forced to stay at home following the closure of their schools due to COVID-19. Muhammad-Bande said the situation was particularly painful to him because inclusive quality education is one of the priorities of his presidency. “Education, especially learning in schools, has virtually stopped for many because of lack of access to the technologies needed for remote instruction to take place. “It, therefore, means that all has to be done to make technologies widely available to all parts of the world for critical things like education and agriculture. “In reconstructing their educational infrastructure, countries should learn from what technology can offer. “You must leverage technology not as an aside but as an integral element’’. The second lesson from the COVID-19 crisis, according to the PGA, is the connectedness of societies, making a problem in one corner of the world a global one. This, he said, explains why a disease that broke out in a Chinese town became a global epidemic within a few months with devastating health and socio-economic impacts. Muhammad-Bande, who is Nigeria’s Permanent Representative to the UN, said with this lesson, the world should ensure inclusion in both responses to COVID-19 and recovery efforts. “We should not joke with this notion that if a vaccine is available and one country is left out, no country is free. “You can see the issue of climate change, how reduction in the use of fossil fuels has been positive in many parts of the in terms of quality of air, regeneration of plants, among others. “Again, can we find means of doing things differently? This is a critical question that must be addressed by countries in terms of policies,’’ he said. NAN Vanguard News Nigeria Nigeria’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Prof. Tijani Muhammad-Bande, has formally declared his intention to vie for the presidency of the 74th UN General Assembly (UNGA). May 4, 2019 In "News" The President of the UN General Assembly, Amb. Tijani Muhammad-Bande has called for concerted global action against illicit financial flows (IFFs) to actualise the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The UNGA President made the call in his remarks during the closing session of the 74th UNGA General Debate at the UN… October 1, 2019 In "News" President of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), Amb. Tijani Muhammad-Bande, on Monday in New York, decried the engagement of untrained teachers in many schools around the world. Muhammad-Bande, who spoke at the opening session of the 2020 Annual Parliamentary Hearing at the UN Headquarters, described the trend as worrisome… February 17, 2020 In "News"