US Federal officials intercepted an envelope addressed to the White House that contained the poison ricin, a law enforcement official told The Associated Press on Saturday. The letter was intercepted at a government facility that screens mail addressed to the White House and President Donald Trump, the official said. A preliminary investigation indicated it tested positive for ricin, a poison found naturally in castor beans, the official said. The official was not authorized to discuss the ongoing investigation publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. Federal investigators were working to determine where the enveloped originated and who mailed it. The FBI, the Secret Service and the US Postal Inspection Service were leading the investigation. In a statement, the FBI said agents were working to investigate “a suspicious letter received at a U.S. government mail facility” and that there is “no known threat to public safety.” A Navy veteran was arrested in 2018 and confessed to sending envelopes to Trump and members of his administration that contained the substance from which ricin is derived. Authorities said the man, William Clyde Allen III, sent the envelopes with ground castor beans to the president, FBI Director Christopher Wray, along with then-Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, then-CIA Director Gina Haspel, Adm. John Richardson, who at the time was the Navy’s top officer, and then-Air Force Secretary Heather Wilson. The letters were intercepted, and no one was hurt. In 2014, a Mississippi man was sentenced to 25 years in prison after sending letters dusted with ricin to President Barack Obama and other officials. [Associated Press] Vanguard News Nigeria. A letter addressed to US President Barack Obama tested positive for ricin in a drama over poisoned mail spreading alarm in Washington, which was already on edge Wednesday after the Boston bombings. April 17, 2013 In "News" Pipe bombs were sent to Barack Obama, prominent Democrats and CNN -- all hate figures for backers of President Donald Trump -- in a coordinated plot to "terrorize" ahead of polarizing US elections, officials said Wednesday. October 24, 2018 In "News" Rescuers launched a door-to-door search Thursday for victims after a massive explosion at a Texas fertilizer factory killed as many as 15 people and leveled much of this small Texas town. April 18, 2013 In "News"