THE Federal Government yesterday said that it had to reschedule the meeting planned to hold yesterday with the organized labour because the leadership of the two labour centers had engagement outside Abuja. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, announced that the meeting has been rescheduled for Tuesday. A statement issued by the Minister through the Deputy Director, Press in the Ministry, Charles Akpan, read, “The meeting has been rescheduled to Tuesday, 15th Sept at 10am. Venue is Banquet Hall of Presidential Villa. This is to accommodate all participants.” President Muhammadu Buhari had, on Friday, after meeting with Ngige, gave the approval for the relevant government agencies in charge of finance to meet with the labour to present the book on the nation’s economy. Trade Union Congress, TUC, had condemned the recent increase in the petroleum pump price occasioned by the removal of fuel subsidy and the electricity tarrif hike and had called for a reversal with immediate effect. It was reliably gathered that the Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, was making consultations with its relevant organs over the increases. Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru THE Federal Government Saturday said that it had to reschedule the meeting earlier planned to hold on Saturday with the organized labour because the leaderships of the two Labour centres had engagement outside Abuja. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige announced that the meeting… September 12, 2020 In "News" ...Directs Finance Minister to present nation's economic status to unions ...As Labour plans to protest over fuel, electricity tariff hike By Johnbosco Agbakwuru PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Friday approved a meeting between the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Dr. Zainab Ahmed, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator… September 11, 2020 In "News" The Electricity Distribution Companies, DISCOs, yesterday, rejected calls by the Senate to suspend the new electricity tariff regime, arguing that suspending the implementation of the tariff will plunge the nation into continued darkness and as well diminished its prospects for future growth of the economy. February 18, 2016 In "News"