Kano State Commissioner for Education, Malam Muhammad Sanusi Sa’id Kiru, has directed for the immediate re-opening of six technical colleges in the state to enable students in the exit classes to participate in the forthcoming NABTEB examinations. Kiru in a statement by the Ministry’s Public Relations Officer, Aliyu Yusuf, also said the state government directed for the settling of the students’ examination fees and earmarked the sum of over N16 million for their feeding as well as up-keep in their respective colleges. According to the statement, “The directives followed an approval granted to a Memo submitted to the Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, by the Commissioner. “The Commissioner said that the state government has directed for the immediate payment of the NABTEB examinations fees of all the SSS 3 students in the technical schools. “He further disclosed that in order to facilitate the smooth re-opening of the schools, the sum of N15.6 million has been earmarked for students feeding as well as the sum of N860,000  for up-keep of the respective colleges. “On the other hand, the Commissioner also revealed that the government has provided all the required Personal Protective Equipment (PPE’s) to all the students to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols. “He, therefore, directed the Executive Secretary of the Board to call on Directors/ Principals of the six Technical Colleges concerned under the State Science and Technical Schools Board to reciprocate the exceptional gesture by doing what is expected of them,” the statement however reads. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Bashir Bello Kano State government has earmarked the sum of N489million for settling of the National Examination Council, NECO and National Board for Arabic and Islamic Studies, NBAIS examination fee of about 29,126 students in the state. The benefiting students were those who excelled and obtained five credits in… August 24, 2020 In "News" Kano state governor, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje has directed that students in public schools who failed the qualifying examination be sponsored to register for the National Examination Council (NECO), while he warns principals of secondary schools against taxing of students. April 9, 2019 In "Education" All students to undergo screening before gaining entrance to schools Distributes 538 PPEs, facemasks, others to schools Plans palliative for private schools By Bashir Bello - Kano Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has on Saturday said it is on the verge of crushing and winning the fight against… August 9, 2020 In "News"