South Africa’s government has introduced three bills in Parliament to curb gender-based violence. President Cyril Ramaphosa has termed them as the “most far-reaching legislative overhaul in the fight against gender-based violence and femicide”. The proposed changes seek to among other things create a new offense of sexual intimidation, allow for names of sex offenders to be publicly available, and tighten the granting of bail to perpetrators of violence against women. They also impose new obligations on police officers, prosecutors, and courts in handling cases. Domestic Violence Act will be changed to cover couples in “engagements, dating, in customary relationships, and actual or perceived romantic, intimate or sexual relationships of any duration”. The amendments are a follow up on the president’s promise last year to change laws on domestic abuse. In his weekly newsletter on Monday, Mr Ramaphosa said the Bills will “restore the confidence of our country’s women that the law is indeed there to protect them”. Vanguard South Africa’s Cyril Ramaphosa has condemned violence against women and children in the country. This comes after a recent spate of murders targeting women and children. According to him, abuse against women and children is a “war” and “brutality that defies comprehension.” All of them are young women who… June 19, 2020 In "News" Want help-desks established for report of cases By Joseph Erunke - Abuja Women groups numbering 286, have alleged increase in sexual violence against women and girls as Nigerians observe the ongoing stay-at-home directives of both federal and state governments over coronavirus outbreak in the country. To this end, the groups… April 3, 2020 In "News" Want help-desks established for report of cases By Joseph Erunke WOMEN groups numbering 286, have alleged increase in sexual violence against women and girls as Nigerians observe the ongoing stay-at-home directives of both federal and state governments over coronavirus outbreak in the country. To this end, the groups faulted President… April 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"