Footballers dream of an appearance at the World Cup, the same way actors, dream of an appearance in a Hollywood feature film. For Nigeria-born Oghenekaro Itene, this fulfillment has come with her role in Chase a 2019 American action thriller film. This has, of course, transformed the way brands look at Oghenekaro. Now a regular face on some of the prestigious film events in the Hollywood, the United States, Oghenekaro has inked a deal as Nature Herbal Life Brand Ambassador. A leading US manufactural of Herbal Supplements which includes the world famous Bitter Leaf Capsules and Bitter Leaf Tea. Before she relocated to America to fulfill her dream, Oghenekaro had starred in some of the most spectacular productions in Nigeria and South Africa. With lots of critical acclaims in most of her roles, there is no gain wondering why she is also a delight for advertisers who see her personality as appropriate to drive the sales goals of their brands. Oghenekaro, who is a make-up artist-turned-actress, popular for productions such as “Tinsel,” “Shattered Dreams,” “Glass House,” among others, hails from Edo State. vanguardngr.com Love, may be far from the diary of many actresses in Nollywood, but for Oghenekaro Itene, popularly known as Karo, love is certainly coming home to roost as the beautiful thespian is set to tie the nuptial knot with her secret lover based in the US. July 7, 2018 In "Entertainment" RISING Nollywood actress,  Oghenekaro  Itene  who toured the  cities of America for months following her role as “Itohan” in the movie, “Esohe”, an epic blockbuster set in the ancient Benin Kingdom is looking fairer than she was when she left the shores of the country few months ago. October 2, 2017 In "Home Video People" "'Denies bleaching her skin"" Rising Nollywood actress,  Oghenekaro  Itene who toured the   cities of America for months following her role as “Itohan” in the movie , “Esohe”, an epic  blockbuster  set in the ancient Benin Kingdom is looking fairer than she was when she left  the shores of the country… September 30, 2017 In "Home Video People"