 THE Nigerian Maritime Ad ministration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, and the Bureau of Public Service Reforms, BPSR, are currently in talks on how to implement transformational initiatives in the maritime sector.  Speaking in Abuja during a visit to the Bureau, NIMASA’s Director General, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, emphasized  the importance of efficient and effective Public Service to Nigeria’s economic prosperity adding that the Agency is  committed  to collaborate with the ongoing initiative. Jamoh, who was represented by the agency’s Director, Reform Coordination and Strategic Management, Dr. Kabir Murnai, said the partnership would be focused on reform initiatives and development research. According to him a sustainable relationship between the two Federal Government agencies was essential for capacity development. He stated: “We are here to see how we can connect with BPSR in order to clearly understand and key into government’s specific priorities, while still pursuing the respective mandates and goals of NIMASA. “We desire advisory and technical support services for change management teams, to engender an environment of learning within NIMASA.” Similarly, Director of BPSR, Mr. Dasuki Ibrahim Arabi, pledged the Bureau’s commitment to the collaborative agreement for the mutual benefit of the two agencies.    A POPULAR African   proverb says the morning determines the day. The morning sets the tone for the rest of the day. And experts say morning habits play a significant role in the success of an individual. That is why Dr. Bashir Jamoh's early steps as Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime… July 22, 2020 In "Maritime Report" The Federal Government has restated its commitment to prompt and effective service delivery, especially in its Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), saying it is an essential condition for economic development. March 20, 2019 In "Maritime Report" DESPITE holding-up on the strategic direction and initiatives of the new leadership at the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, the new Director General, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, yesterday, indicated that the Agency under him would pursue the agenda of the Deep Blue Project, ensure the enactment of the anti-piracy… March 11, 2020 In "Business"