Operatives of Ogun State Police Command, last Thursday, arrested four persons for being in possession of a human skull, with they got from a corpse they exhumed. The suspects, identified as Muyideen Tolubi, Niyi Folorunso, Sonubi Taiwo and Remilekun Folorunso, were arrested following information from Odogbolu Division that some people were digging a grave. It was reported that the aim was to remove the already buried corpse, and the dead (corpse they exhumed) was not in any way related to the invaders. Sequel to the report, the DPO Odogbolu division, CSP Afolabi Yusuf, led his detectives to the scene but the suspects had already removed the head of the corpse and left. The police then embarked on an intelligence-based investigation which led to the arrest of the couple, Niyi and Remilekun Folorunso, as well as Muyideen Tolubi. Confirming the arrest, the spokesperson Ogun State Police Command, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, said three of the suspects confessed being the persons that dug the grave and removed the head of the corpse. They later took detectives to Ikenne, where the fourth person who asked them to bring the head for ritual purpose was apprehended. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, CP Edward Ajogun has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, SCIID, for further investigation and prosecution. VANGUARD James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested four persons for unlawfully been in possession of a human skull in Odogbolu,  Odogbolu local government area of the state. The command Public Relations Officer,  DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, who disclosed this to newsmen in Abeokuta, the… September 28, 2020 In "Metro" Alfa Hammed Sulaiman, who says he buys human parts for N2,100 to make money rituals for clients, said he can tell the difference between the parts from a person intentionally killed and those from an exhumed corpse by smelling them. February 9, 2018 In "Crime Alert" Emotion ran high, yesterday, at the Lagos State Police Command, Ikeja, Lagos after a 54-year-old grandmother told a bewildered crowd that she sold human skull for N20,000. The suspect, Sukuratu Salami, who was paraded alongside a cemetery guard and two others,were arrested by operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS,… May 6, 2014 In "News"