Mr Paul Odaro, a former member of the  Edo House of Assembly, on Tuesday, led defectors from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Uhunmwonde Local Government Council of the state to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaking during an APC ward-to-ward campaign rally at Eguaholor, in the Uhunmwonde Council, Odaro said their defection was hinged on the alleged unfulfilled electoral promises of Gov. Godwin Obaseki. He said he had been a PDP member since 1999 but decided to dump the party due to the neglect of his ward by the Obaseki-led administration. Odaro alleged that despite the fact that the Edo governor was from his council, he did not carry out any project there. On his part, the former governor of the state, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole decried the alleged neglect of infrastructure and development in the area by the Obaseki administration. Oshiomhole stated that it was more worrisome that even the water fountain at the King’s Square in front of Oba’s palace could not be maintained by the governor. He said it was disturbing that the governor was shutting down tertiary institutions and refusing to employ teachers in public schools, thereby denying the people qualitative education. The former governor, therefore, urged the people of the area to vote for the APC in the Sept. 19 election. The campaign team also visited Ehor and Eyean communities, also in Uhunmwonde, where it canvassed for votes for its candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Vanguard News Sunday Vanguard gathered that Obaseki is opposed to the former Local Government administrators coming back to head the Councils due to what he described as the debt crisis they plunged the Councils in the past January 21, 2018 In "News" The Edo State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has received defectors from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Esan South East Local Government Area of the state. February 13, 2019 In "News" THE All Progressives Congress, APC, in Edo State, Wednesday, got a boost as a chieftain of the party in Ward 9, Okokhuo, Ovia North East Local Government Area, Mr. Frank Osayande, led over 3, 000 APC members to the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, declaring their support for the reelection of… August 27, 2020 In "Edo Decides"