Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has said the Inspector-General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu, ordering him to leave Edo State on the eve of the September 19 governorship election was vendetta over his (Wike’s) role in preventing the “abduction” of a former NDDC boss and his stance on the state’s contribution to the Police Trust Fund. According to Wike, the IGP called him on the telephone and ordered him to leave Edo immediately, but that the police boss could not respond when he asked why Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State and Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State, members of All Progressives Congress, APC, were allowed to remain in Edo State. Wike, Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP’s governorship campaign council for the election, said this on Channels TV programme on Friday. In his words: “The IG never saw me outside. I was inside my room and I got a call from the IG that I must leave Edo State. “I am the Chairman of the Campaign Council and the Chairman does not mean that after the campaign, you leave. No, you must monitor what is going on, so that at the end of the day, you would be able to write your report. “I discovered that the IG’s own had nothing to do with the election because I remembered that some time ago my commissioner returned from a FAAC meeting and said there were deductions made to the Police Trust Fund. “I asked who approved it, because the Police are under the Exclusive List and not the Concurrent List. I told my Attorney-General to challenge it. This angered the IG.” Also, he said: “When our sister, Joi Nunieh (the former NDDC Acting MD), was to be abducted, IG was not happy about my intervention. “He called me and I asked him how could you allow a woman to be taken away at 4a.m. knowing the security situation in the country today? Why didn’t you invite her?” Wike said he does not regret his action, because the police were wrong to have attempted to arrest her Nunieh the day she was to give evidence at the National Assembly. VANGUARD …Rivers gov, PDP raise alarm over harassment By Egufe Yafugborhi Governor Wike of Rivers State last night expressed shock that Inspector General of Police, Adamu, asked him to leave Edo State while such action was not taken against other APC governors who are also in the   state for today's election.… September 19, 2020 In "News" By Emma Amaize The Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, has condemned the siege by police officers to the hotel Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, lodged in Benin City, the Edo State capital, describing the action as a serious threat to democracy. PANDEF youth leader, Chief Vincent Oyibode, reacting to the… September 19, 2020 In "News" By Kingsley Omonobi, Ben Agande, Jimitota Onoyume, Omeiza Ajayi & Dave Ihemnachor ABUJA—Ahead of  Saturday’s parliamentary rerun elections in Rivers State, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and the All Progressives Congress, APC, were, yesterday, locked in a war of words over alleged plans to unleash violence. In the face of… December 7, 2016 In "Headlines"