The New Era Forum, NEF, has urged the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, to throw his hat in the ring for the 2023 governorship contest in Delta State, “as he is very qualified and competent for the growth and development of the state.” A statement in Asaba, the Delta State capital, weekend, by NEF’s Director for Information and Strategy, High Chief Igho Osiebe, stated that Urhobo sons and daughters across political divides believe that DSP Omo-Agege was the most qualified, stressing that he alone has all it takes to deliver quality service to people of the state. Chief Osiebe, who is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC, and a custodian of the Kokokori customs and tradition in the state, stated that though Urhoboland has other eminently qualified sons and daughters, who can take the state out of the ‘woods’. However, he noted, Omo-Agege was the only one who has the capacity and wherewithal to win a landslide victory at the polls, describing as him APC’s winning joker. Chief Osiebe said NEF will purchase the expression of interest form for the Deputy Senate President when the time comes noting that all it wants is Omo-Agege’s governorship in 2023. NEF, according to the APC stalwart, has chosen Omo-Agege as its candidate for reasons of his service delivery to the people of Nigeria, particularly at the National Assembly. The body noted that the records were there for all to see, adding that while others slept at plenary, the lawmaker busied himself with nation-building bills, and that he has succeeded in pushing through so many bills. VANGUARD We the good people of Delta State first and foremost congratulate His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari on his well deserved and well won victory in the 2019 elections. May 6, 2019 In "Viewpoint" By Olayinka Ajayi A chieftain of All Progressives Congress, APC, in Delta State, Moses Ogodo, in this interview, speaks on the 72-hour ultimatum given to Deputy Senate President, Sen Ovie Omo-Agege, to resign by the Coalition of Civil Society Organisations, CSOs, over alleged crimes. He also speaks on the recent… February 2, 2020 In "Politics" As the All Progressives Congress (APC) prepares to take control of the 9th Senate on Tuesday, June 11, having won majority seats in the upper chamber of the National Assembly, several senators have thrown their hats in the ring to run for one leadership post or the other. June 10, 2019 In "Viewpoint"