Big Brother Naija Lockdown housemate, Nengi has playfully accused Ozo her ‘best friend’ in the house of masturbating. Nengi said this after she visited Ozo’s bed Wednesday evening and found ‘cum stains on his bed.’ Ozo however, denied masturbating in the house but Nengi insisted that Ozo was helping himself. To what surprised the viewers, Nengi herself also admitted having tried to masturbate. In their conversation, Nengi said “Ozo there are cum stains on your bed”. Ozo quickly denied by saying, “Anything you see here is from the laundry. This place is too small for such a thing.” Nengi insisted, “It’s a lie. Who was talking about it the other day, was it Praise or who? That you can just be doing your thing… tell me, have you tried it before? “You, have you tried it before? Answer me first then I’ll tell you. Ozo, those stains I saw under your bed…I’m suspecting you. You have tried it in this house. You have tried it. Don’t tell me lies, you’ve tried it. If you haven’t you would’ve told me. “I.wanted to try it one day, but I said no it wouldn’t work.” Vanguard News Nigeria By David Royal The elder sister of Big Brother Naija, BBNaija housemate, Ozo has reacted to viewers' comments over Ozo’s endless show of compassion to Nengi in the house. In a viral video on Saturday, she said Ozo is used to showing care, concern and compassion and according to her,… September 12, 2020 In "Entertainment" By Ayo Onikoyi It wasn't such a huge surprise when BBNaija Housemate, Wathoni was evicted from the show last Sunday. The Housemate probably must have been expecting to go home, as she had been in the bottom four a number of times. Perhaps she thought she had been given an… September 5, 2020 In "Entertainment" By David Royal Big Brother Naija, BBNaija housemate, Dorathy who once had affection for fellow housemate, Ozo, has advised him(Ozo) to leave Nengi alone since a relationship is not working out for both of them. Dorothy who told Ozo to act like a man and stop being like a chicken… September 12, 2020 In "Entertainment"