Director-General of the Lagos International Trade Fair, Mrs Lucy Ajayi, who is also a member of the All Progressive Congress National Committee Campaign for Edo election, has assured women of equal representation should Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu win the election on Saturday. In a phone interview with Vanguard, Ajayi assured women in Edo that their needs will be met adding that with the Ize-Iyamu’s SIMPLE Agenda, their challenges will be addressed. Ajayi who lamented that women are always at the receiving end when it comes to insecurity despite their support for politicians assured that such narrative will change with the emergence of Ize-Iyamu as governor of Edo State. “Women are mobilizers, and I am sure that their views and yearnings will be considered because the APC candidate is a man of God and he is true to his words. “I have known him since 2013 in the merger committee. He has contributed immensely to the emergence of APC. I was in CPC and he was in ACN and the merger of those parties – CPC, ACN, ANPP, DPP and APGA that formed APC. And his contribution has been immense.’’ Vanguard News Nigeria The Women Group of the All Progressives Congress, Edo State Chapter, has assured the governorship candidate of the party, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, a resounding victory at the polls on the 19th September. July 20, 2020 In "News" ...assures resident of positive change By Olayinka Ajayi Candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the Edo Governorship election, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Sunday, assured residents of Okpella that his administration would ensure the development of the community with resources generated from its solid minerals and other resources if he is… August 30, 2020 In "News" THE All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday, charged the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, as well as Governors Godwin Obaseki of Edo and Nyesom Wike of Rivers to purge themselves of their age-long undemocratic habits of election rigging, vote-buying and violence. August 12, 2020 In "News"