The Nasarawa State chapter of Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) has rejected the directive by the state government that doctors on the payroll of government should desist from private practice or face sanction. Dr Sabo Emmanuel, NMA Chairman in the state, stated this while briefing newsmen on Wednesday in Lafia. The NMA chairman was reacting to the directive recently given by the Nasarawa State Government that doctors working with the state are not allowed to work or owned private health facilities. Emmanuel said the directive was not acceptable by the association as their members were not using official time for private practice. “Our members working with the state-owned health facilities are guided by the civil service rules and were never found wanting for compromising their official duties for private engagements. “Civil Service rules do not prevent doctors from establishing or engaging in private life after office hours,” the chairman said. He further said that the association was not consulted as they just heard the announcement in the media. Emmanuel explained that private facilities were playing vital roles in complementing public facilities and is not peculiar to Nasarawa State. He noted that the association would engage the government on the issue to find a common ground to avoid any industrial disharmony. On the efforts being made to battle the Coronavirus pandemic, the chairman said over 150 healthcare workers in the state were infected with the virus. He, however, commended Gov. Abdullahi Sule for payment of COVID-19 allowances to healthcare workers. He explained that the governor was among the first governors to pay the COVID-19 allowances in the country. He added that the governor had also provided a lot of personal protective equipment (PPEs) to the healthcare workers battling the virus. Vanguard Warns state govt over-commercialization of Coronavirus treatment By Chioma Obinna The State Officers Committee Of the Lagos State Chapter of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, has expressed worry over what it described as ‘disturbing reports of some Doctors in private practice engaging in the management of COVID-19 cases, threatening to… April 18, 2020 In "Health" EDO State Government and the state chapter of Nigeria Medical Association, NMA, yesterday, engaged in war of words over the 21-day ultimatum issued by NMA for government to heed to its demands or members will cripple the state health sector. March 22, 2018 In "News" ALTHOUGH indications emerged, yesterday, that some of the sacked Lagos doctors may be recalled, the state government has ruled out a blanket recall of all the doctors, even as the aggrieved doctors have accused the government of prolonging the current health crisis in the state. May 24, 2012 In "News"