Health workers under the auspices of Joint Health Sector Unions, JOHESU has declared a nationwide strike over hazard allowance and non-payment of withheld salaries of their members among others. JOHESU, in a statement on Sunday, has told its members to withdraw services from midnight of Sunday, September 13, 2020, since nothing concrete was achieved at the meeting with the Federal Government. According to the statement, leaders of various health unions in the sector unanimously reached the decision at the end of their expanded National Executive Council. “In the light of the above, the meeting of our expanded NEC was held Saturday 12 September 2020. And at the end of the meeting, which was held both physically and virtually, it was unanimously agreed that since nothing concrete was achieved at the said meeting with the Federal Government, that the strike notice is still germane and alive. “Therefore, the 15-day ultimatum still subsists and with effect from midnight of Sunday, 13th September, 2020 our members shall withdraw their services due to Federal Government’s inability to meet their demands,” the statement added. The health workers had in a letter dated August, 30th, addressed to the Federal Ministry of Health, FMOH, issued a 15- day ultimatum to the Federal Government to meet their demands. The demands of the aggrieved workers include; the review of the defective implementation of COVID-19 Special Inducement and Hazard Allowance; the payment of all withheld salaries of JOHESU members, including the withheld April and May 2018 salaries; and the adjustment of Consolidated Health Salary Structure (CONHESS) as was done with Consolidated Medical Salary Structure (CONMESS) since 2014. Others listed in the letter with the reference number HQ/JOHESU/ADM/FMoH/VOL.II/55 are the implementation of the National Industrial Court of Nigeria (ADR) Consent judgment and other court judgments as well as the call to address the structural and infrastructural decay in the health sector. Vanguard News Nigeria The Joint Health Sector Unions, JOHESU has intimated of the looming strike in the Health sector from the 17th of next month if the federal government fails to honour the terms of agreements with the Union at different fora since 2009 especially the agreement reached on the 30th of September,… March 26, 2018 In "News" BARELY four days to Christmas holidays, patients seeking healthcare services in public hospitals across the federation, appear to be in for a gloomy yuletide as a three-day nationwide warning strike called by the Joint Health Sector Unions, JOHESU, is expected to begin tomorrow. December 20, 2011 In "Health" THE Joint Health Sector Unions JOHESU, has commenced a nationwide indefinite strike code-named "Operation Alligator Bite". September 20, 2017 In "News"