Abraham Musonda, 52, was set upon by his 40-year-old wife when he refused to remove a rat she found near her bed at their home in the Zambian town of Kitwe A wife bit off her husband’s penis after he refused to get a rat out of her bedroom, police say. Abraham Musonda, 52, from the Zambian town of Kitwe, was allegedly attacked by his 40-year-old wife Mukupa following a row about the rodent. She claimed the animal was pestering her and became infuriated when she came home from drinks with pals to find the rat near bed. Feeling unable to sleep while the pesky rodent had the run of the room, she ordered her husband to get rid of it, it is claimed. A scuffle apparently ensued when he refused, with Mukupa managing to sink her teeth into his genitals, causing a ‘major tear’. Bothwell Namuswa, Deputy Police Commissioner for Copperbelt Province, told the Zambian Observer the pair are essentially separated and live under the same roof in separate rooms. According to Metro UK, Mr Musonda was rushed to a Kitwe Teaching Hospital for urgent medical treatment following the incident. It comes after a man was arrested after beating his girlfriend’s son and allegedly cutting his genitals with his fingernails, authorities said. Mohammad Mahmoud Shaar, 26, of Coconut Creek, Florida, dropped off his girlfriend at her workplace last Thursday before taking her four-year-old son to a babysitter’s home. Shaar allegedly attacked the boy when he became increasingly upset after his mother got out of the car, according to an arrest report. Broward Sheriff’s Office said the babysitter’s home was only 1.6 miles away from the mother’s place of work, but Shaar took 20 minutes to get there. The babysitter said the the boy was crying and shaking when he arrived and Shaar left without giving her any explanation about what happened, reported Local10.com Vanguard A 40-year-old trader, Mrs Folake Alimi, on Wednesday told an Igando Customary Court in Lagos that she caught her husband making love to a girl on their matrimonial bed. May 31, 2017 In "News" A US woman cut off her husband's penis because she "wanted him to stop hurting her" with it, and was enraged that she thought he had another woman, her lawyer said Wednesday. April 17, 2013 In "News" 42 year old John Ajene, who resides in Otukpo Local Government Area of Benue State, Tuesday had his penis chopped off by his infuriated wife, Mrs. Roseline Ajene for his alleged infidelity. September 18, 2012 In "News"