Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), on Tuesday, pleaded not guilty to the eight counts bordering on alleged culpable homicide filed against him in a Kaduna High Court. Justice Gideon Kurada took the plea of the IMN leader at the resumed hearing of the motion in a no-case-submission filed by El-Zakzaky on Aug. 7. Justice Kurada had, however,  fixed Sept. 29, for ruling in the motion, after counsel to the defendant, Abubakar Marshall, holding the brief for Femi Falana, SAN, asked the court to quash the charges preferred against El-Zakzaky by the government for not “disclosing an offence known to law contrary to sections 36 (8) and (12) of the 1999 constitution as amended”. At the resumed sitting, Kurada again reserved ruling in the motion until hearing in the substantive suit. Also, the Judge, after taking the plea of the defendant adjourned until Nov. 18 and Nov. 19 to enable the prosecution present it’s witnesses. The IMN leader  filed the motion seeking the court to quash the State government’s case against him for lack of evidence. The IMN leader and his wife Zinat are standing trial on allegations of culpable homicide, unlawful assembly and disruption of public peace, among other charges. Mr Dari Bayero, who led the prosecution,  told reporters shortly after the hearing, that the State has  assembled more than 20 witnesses to give evidence before the court. Bayero said personnel of Nigerian Army and  that of the Nigeria Police were among witnesses assembled to give evidence in the case against the defendant. The IMN leader and his wife Zinat are standing trial on allegations of culpable homicide, unlawful assembly and disruption of public peace, among other charges. Abubakar Marshall, counsel to the defendant, holding brief for Falana, also told reporters shortly after the adjournment that his motion on no-case submission had been reserved until the end of hearing in the main suit. He said that his client had taken a not-guilty-plea and ” we are waiting for the prosecution to present it’s witnesses”. Vanguard A High Court in Kaduna, on Monday ordered the Correctional Center, to allow leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, and his wife, Zinat full access to medical services before taking their plea on April 23. The court presided by Justice Gideon Kurada, gave the order,… February 25, 2020 In "News" A High Court in Kaduna on Thursday fixed Feb. 24 and Feb. 25, for the continuation of trial of leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, and his wife, Zinat. Justice Gideon Kurada, the trial judge, at the resumed hearing of the case on Feb. 6,… February 6, 2020 In "News" A Kaduna High Court, yesterday, rejected the bail application filed by the leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, IMN, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zinat. November 8, 2018 In "News"