A political movement, with members in the 36 states of the federation and the federal capital territory, has called for support for the emergence of former Lagos State governor, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, BAT, for the presidency in 2023 elections. The movement also called on Tinubu to come forward and contest the 2023 presidency. National coordinator of the BAT Project ’23,  Umar Yakubu Inusa, said Tinubu “is a politician who puts national interests above his personal interests, and will continue to do that if given the opportunity to lead Nigeria. “Tinubu is a leader who transforms nothing into something and feeds his people from the riches of what has been so transformed.” He made the remarks at the BAT Project ’23 leaders’ conference for all the states’ coordinators tagged: “The Bold Step” in Abuja, saying the movement will serve as the driving force for the actualisation of the presidency of Ahmed Tinubu in 2023. “In his time as Lagos State governor, staff salaries, development projects, philanthropic activities never stopped. “That is the man, Bola Tinubu, and that is just one state. Think about the bigger picture here. “If he did that in Lagos and we never heard Lagos State going into recession at the time, what if he had the whole country struggling to manage her abundant resources? “Let us ponder upon that,” he added. VANGUARD A former Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), big wig and former Minister of Works, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe has said that if the All Progressives Congress, (APC) National Leader, Senator Bola Tinubu wants to contest for the presidency in 2023 he should this come as he asked 'Is Tinubu not qualified to… June 22, 2019 In "News" Crisis appears imminent in the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, over the party’s insistence to field Senator Ahmed Lawan as Senate President and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker of the House of Representatives in the incoming 9th National Assembly. May 12, 2019 In "News" Babachir Lawal, former secretary to the government of the federation, has said that after 2023, President Muhammadu Buhari would retire to Daura, to tend to his cows, praying to see Buhari’s legacy. October 19, 2019 In "News"