Former Mavin records first lady, Tiwa Savage during the week inspired woman especially those within her age bracket with the story of how she got signed to the Universal Music Group, one of world’s leading music outfits at the age of 40. In an excerpt of an Instagram live session with Lip Service which she shared on her IG page, the mother of one noted that getting signed to UMG at 40, is God telling her that her life journey is bigger than music. “It’s a testimony that one’s life is not over after marriage, having kids or being a single mom,”the songstress added. “I’m 40 and that’s really hard for a lot of people to believe that I got signed to UMG at that age. It’s just like, how is that possible. But to me, that’s just God telling me that my journey is bigger than music, it’s bigger than just being an African woman.” “My journey is like to show other women that your life is not over yet because you are married, because you have kids, because you are a single mom, because you’re not in your 20s or in your teens. You can start your dream when God says that’s when you’re supposed to start”, Tiwa said. In her caption, she appealed to every woman on her time line to make a promise never to quit trying till they reach the heights they want to, asking them to type I am Celia in the comment section if they would make the promise. “Please I beg all the beautiful women, ladies and girls on my timeline to make a promise today to never stop trying, type I am Celia in the comment section if you know you gonna make it”, she wrote. Recall that Tiwa Savage recently released her much-anticipated third album dubbed ‘ Celia.’ Vanguard Nigerian singer and songwriter Tiwa Savage has signed an international recording deal with Universal Music Group (UMG). May 2, 2019 In "Entertainment" Leading Nigerian songstress, Tiwa Savage and talented Afro-pop singer, has begged Don Jazzy that he should promise their relationshiTiwa Savagep will never change May 2, 2019 In "Music" Nigerian singer, Tiwa Savage has been featured in the December edition of British Vogue. November 9, 2018 In "Entertainment"