Brazilian forward Neymar said on Friday he was “super happy” to return to Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) training. His comments have come a day after the French Ligue 1 champions lost their delayed season-opener 1-0 to Lens. Neymar announced his return on Twitter having recently missed both training and Thursday’s game where PSG were also missing 2018 FIFA World Cup winner Kylian Mbappe. The French football federation said Mbappe tested positive for the coronavirus between the 2020/2021 UEFA Nations League matches involving France recently. These were against Sweden —- where he scored the winner —- and at home to Croatia —- where he did not play. PSG said several other unnamed players in their squad had also tested positive for Covid-19. From their regular eleven, Mauro Icardi and Angel Di Maria were also missing. Neymar concluded his Tweet with the message “#CORONAOUT.” PSG’s trip to Lens was moved back to give them more recovery time from playing the 2020 UEFA Champions League final match on Aug. 23. They will host traditional rivals Marseille in the league on Sunday.(dpa/NAN) vanguardngr.com Paris Saint-Germain brushed off the ongoing Neymar transfer saga by kicking off their Ligue 1 title defence with a straightforward 3-0 victory over Nimes on Sunday. The 27-year-old Neymar was left out of the squad the day after PSG sporting director Leonardo said talks about a possible sale of the… August 11, 2019 In "Sports" Neymar marked his first start in a Champions League game in a year by scoring one goal and setting up two more as Paris Saint-Germain cruised to a 5-0 win over Galatasaray on Wednesday. Mauro Icardi and Pablo Sarabia netted in the first half at the Parc des Princes, with… December 12, 2019 In "Sports" Kylian Mbappe scored twice to take his season tally to 20 as the French World Cup winner shone in Paris Saint-Germain's 4-1 rout of his former club Monaco on Wednesday. The victory kept PSG eight points clear at the top. They also registered their 50th goal of the league campaign… January 16, 2020 In "Sports"