Lagos state has discharged six more coronavirus patients from the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, after their full recovery and testing negative twice to the virus. The government said on Monday via Twitter that the patients include  1 female and 5 males. This brings the number of patients who have been managed and discharged from Lagos facilities to 61. He tweeted “Good people of Lagos, Today, 6 more persons; 1 female and 5 males have been discharged from IDH, Yaba, after their full recovery and testing negative twice to #COVID19 This good news brings the number of patients who have been managed and discharged from our facilities to 61. “For us, this is indicative of our will power to triumph in the war against #COVID19. We won’t be deterred until victory is achieved. I thank you all for your continued perseverance especially at this critical time. This sacrifice of ours, I am most certain will not be in vain”. Good people of Lagos, Today, 6 more persons; 1 female and 5 males have been discharged from IDH, Yaba, after their full recovery and testing negative twice to #COVID19 This good news brings the number of patients who have been managed and discharged from our facilities to 61. — Babajide Sanwo-Olu (@jidesanwoolu) April 13, 2020  Vanguard Nigeria News GOVERNOR Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, yesterday, disclosed that the state government will commence a door-to-door testing of residents of the state to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By David Royal Nigeria has discharged seven Coronavirus patients from the Isolation Centre in Lagos, bringing the total number of discharged coronavirus patients to 51 in the country. While total number of discharged patients in Lagos is now 39. A breakdown of the patients according to Lagos State Ministry of… April 9, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who is also the Incident Commander of the #Covid19Lagos, has announced the recovery and discharge of 11 more patients from the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, after testing negative twice. The patients comprise nine males and two females, making the number of those who… April 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"