Moved by the present plight of the people, the member representing Obokun/ Oriade Federal Constituency of Osun State, Rep.Oke Busayo Wole Oke has made a personal donation of 600 bags of rice estimated at ₦15m to the state COVID-19 Committee for distribution to the people of the state as palliatives to cushion the effects of the lockdown to halt further spread of the coronavirus pandemic. In a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja on Thursday, the lawmaker who is the Chairman of the House Committee on Public Accounts said that the palliatives were for everyone across all party lines. He said: “On behalf of myself and Family we are donating ₦15m worth of Rice to Osun State COVID19 Relief Committee for onward distribution to the good people of the state irrespective of religion or political affiliations “This is not the time to play politics, as of today, we have a common problem at hand which is ravaging the country and indeed the entire world, so, we must unite together and confront it collectively so that we can end it and have a state and a country we call our own “It is after the victory over the deadly coronavirus scourage that we can start to think of politics again, am a loyal member of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, to the core, am not for that for now, I have to think how I can contribute my own little quota for the well being of my people”. Oke who commended the State Governor, Chief Adegnoyega Oyetola for setting up the Committee urged the Committee to be fair and just in the management of the palliatives. The lawmaker also urged spirited individuals and organisations to contribute generously to the relief funds which he said would complement government’s efforts in defeating the virus. Vanguard Following the rising number of Coronavirus pandemic cases in Osun, a member of the House of Representatives from the State, Wole Oke has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to approve the sum of N5 billion for the purchase of necessary equipment to fight the disease. April 5, 2020 In "Health" Says Gov Is An Apostle of Peace The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Public Accounts, Rt. Hon. Wole Oke, has extolled the leadership qualities of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, as a peaceful, humble, focused, hard working and grassroots politician who has concentrated massive development more in the… September 3, 2019 In "News" An INEC office in Oriade Local Government Area of Osun State was attacked at about 3am, yesterday. February 24, 2019 In "News"