The Nigeria Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 CACOVID, has so far realised about N27.160 billion to help fight the coronavirus pandemic in the country. The update of the contribution as at April 23, was made known in a document released by Mr Isaac Okorafor, Director, Communications, Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, on behalf of the coalition in Abuja yesterday. The document containing the list of contributors showed that the donations were made by institutions and individuals across the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that CBN and Aliko Dangote were so far the highest contributors of two billion naira each. Abdul Samad Rabiu (BUA Sugar Refinery), Segun Agbaje (GTB), Tony Elumelu (UBA),  Oba Otudeko (First Bank), Jim Ovia (Zenith Bank), Herbert Wigwe (Access Bank) and Femi Otedola of Amperion Power Distribution donated one billion naira each to the fund. Also, Deji Adeleke of Pacific Holding Ltd made N500 million donation. NAN also recalls that Union Bank Plc, Sterling Bank Plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Stanbic IBTC, Citi Bank Nigeria Ltd, FCMB, Fidelity and ECO Banks, African Steel Mills donated N250 million each and Multichoice Nigeria Limited contributed N200 million. The list also indicated that some Nigerians made donations of N1,000, N500, N200, N100, N50 and as little as N1.0 to the contribution. Okorafor said the coalition was grateful to all the institutions and individuals that had open handedly donated to the relief fund. Vanguard The private sector-led Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID-19) has concluded plans to distribute food items to at least 1.7 million vulnerable people in Nigeria to complement governments’ effort s in cushioning the economic consequences of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. April 20, 2020 In "News" The private sector-led Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID-19) has concluded plans to distribute food items to at least 1.7 million vulnerable people in Nigeria to complement governments’ effort s in cushioning the economic consequences of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. April 20, 2020 In "Business" As part of its strategic initiatives and critical response plan to the outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Nigeria, Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc (FMN), Nigeria’s leading food and Agro-allied group, owners of the iconic Golden Penny Foods brand has announced its commitment to contributing N2 billion across the country… April 8, 2020 In "News"