Nigerian musician, Sammie Cross, a microbiologist turned musician has taken his stand with the Ooni of Ife, His Majesty, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, that herbal treatment may be the answer to curing the globally dreaded virus, COVID-19. In a recent chat with Potpourri, the musician expresses regret for not practicing what he studied, believing he may have come handy to tackle the disease. “ I believe the cure lies in our herbs. Just as the Ooni said, a number of our herbs can kill the virus. At a time like this that the world needs microbiologists, I regret dumping my certificate for music,” he said. Although there is no scientific proof that the herbs have or will work against Coronavirus, Ooni insisted that “I have used it and also used it for some of the chronic Corona patients with testimonials.” Sammie Cross actually believes that if he had practiced the microbiology which he learnt in school, he would have been more than capable of referring or prescribing local herbs that can curb the virus. Cross has outrightly thrown a challenge to all Nigerian scientists out there to do something about the virus. On the other hand, Sammie Cross who is signed to PM records is set to release his new track titled ‘Mogbe’. The track promises to be all shades of Sammie as he had proven in time past his capability in releasing melodic oeuvres. VANGUARD Nigerian musician, Sammie Cross, a microbiologist turned musician has taken his stand with the Ooni of Ife, His Majesty, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, that herbal treatment may be the answer to curing the globally dreaded virus, COVID-19. April 1, 2020 In "News" By Rasheed Sobowale A prominent South Western (Yoruba) monarch, Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi (Ojaja II), the Ooni of Ife, has prescribed a list of herbs he claimed has been tested to cure the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) disease. The 51st Ooni of Ife while prescribing a list of the herbs (eight in… March 31, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" A clinical herbalist, Mrs Christiana Olapade-Ojo, says Nigerians should not be quick to dismiss the claims made by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, on using natural herbs to fight COVID-19. April 1, 2020 In "Health"