Former Manchester United striker Andy Cole has started a research fund to help improve kidney transplants and patient wellbeing following his own battle against kidney failure. Cole, who won multiple trophies under Alex Ferguson at Old Trafford, suffered kidney failure in 2015 after picking up a virus while on tour in Vietnam as a United club ambassador. He had a life-saving transplant three years ago, with his nephew providing the donor kidney. The 48-year-old, currently in isolation due to the coronavirus, wants to help others through the Andy Cole Fund run by Kidney Research UK, focusing on research into improving kidney transplants and patient wellbeing. “I’ve been mentally strong enough to play football, but this is the toughest battle I’ve ever had to deal with,” said Cole, who has been working as an assistant coach at third-tier Southend. “I don’t want anyone to end up struggling like I did. The mental battle is bigger than the physical problem. Your mind is the most powerful thing in the world. “My goal now is to find better ways to help make life better for people living with kidney disease or a transplant. If I can help anybody else, then I’ll do just that.” The Andy Cole Fund aims to raise at least £500,000 ($625,000) over the next three years, with improved mental health and wellbeing one of the core aims. Former England international Cole, who also played for Newcastle and Manchester City, won five Premier League titles, one Champions League and two FA Cups with Manchester United. [AFP] VANGUARD Nigeria is becoming an inheritor of strange diseases by the day but the people have a way of surviving. New ailments are developing everyday and somehow, they find their ways into our land. August 23, 2014 In "Special Report" Necessity, says an adage, is the mother of invention. And in Nigeria, the reluctance of relatives of kidney disease patients to donate kidneys to their diseased ones has opened a new business for voluntary donors who make millions by donating one of their kidneys to patients. April 8, 2011 In "Special Report" Surgeons in Baltimore have performed what’s thought to be the world’s first kidney transplant from a living donor with HIV, a milestone for patients with the AIDS virus who need a new organ. March 30, 2019 In "Health"