Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Friday confirmed the discharge of an additional seven COVID-19 patients in the state. The figure brought the number of discharged coronavirus patients in Lagos to 46. Sanwo-Olu, who disclosed this through his verified Twitter handle, said the newly discharged patients were three females and four males. He said that the patients had recovered and tested negative twice consecutively for the disease. The governor said: “This brings to 46, the number of patients successfully managed and discharged from our Yaba facility. “So far, we have had a 100 percent recovery from the #COVID19 cases we have admitted and managed at our isolation facilities.” Sanwo-Olu said that while the state celebrates the successes, social distancing was important and non-negotiable in the war against COVID-19. He advised residents to stay at home, observe good personal hygiene and adhere strictly to advice from health experts. “With collaborative efforts, a COVID-19 free Lagos was possible,” he added. Earlier, Sanwo-Olu had said that the true meaning of Good Friday and Easter celebration was the power of sacrifice. He said that this weekend, the sacrifice of staying at home and social distancing was required to stop the spread of COVID-19. The governor advised the public to avoid fake news He said that the lockdown has not been lifted. Sanwo-Olu, however, acknowledged that the Federal Government had announced Easter public holiday and advised residents to spend time with their loved ones at home. “We are thankful for technology, I will be worshiping virtually with my family on #Easter Sunday. Kindly say a prayer for all our health workers,” he said. (NAN)  Vanguard Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Friday announced the recovery and discharge of seven COVID-19 patients, bringing to 46 the number of discharged patients in the state. April 10, 2020 In "News" Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State says another seven COVID-19 patients have recovered from the virus and freed to go home from the Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba. These brought the number of discharged patients in Lagos State to 39. Sanwo-Olu, through his verified Twitter handle on Thursday, said the… April 9, 2020 In "News" GOVERNOR Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, yesterday, disclosed that the state government will commence a door-to-door testing of residents of the state to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"