Lagos State government on Thursday confirmed the release of 11 patients, who have been receiving treatment for COVID-19 at the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba. The state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who disclosed this on his Twitter handle – @jidesanwoolu – said the patients which include nine men and two women were discharged after their tests turned out negative. He said: “The patients include two females and nine males. Their results came out negative in two rounds of tests. I want to use this opportunity to, once again, thank our frontline health workers and other professionals for their service. “Let me reiterate that this is not the time to relax, but to maintain our vigilance because of the community infection that we are beginning to see. I assure you that in the end, we will hoist a flag of victory – with your cooperation and by the grace of the Almighty.” The state government had previously discharged nine patients after they were certified medically fit by health authorities. The latest development brought the number of coronavirus patients that had been discharged in the state to 20.  Vanguard The Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who is also the Incident Commander of the #Covid19Lagos, has announced the recovery and discharge of 11 more patients from the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, after testing negative twice. The patients comprise nine males and two females, making the number of those who… April 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Eleven more people have recovered from coronavirus (COVID-19) and have been discharged in Lagos State. The state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, announced this in a series of tweets on Thursday. He revealed that the persons – two females and nine males – have fully recovered and have tested negative for COVID-19,… April 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" An Italian index case of COVID-19 in Nigeria has been discharged from the Infectious Disease Hospital,Yaba in Lagos having tested negative to the virus. Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, in a tweet on Friday night, disclosed the recovery of the Italian patient. “As the COVID-19 Incident Commander for Lagos,… March 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"