UMUAHIA- Policemen enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown at Opobo junction, along Ikot Ekpene Road, Ogbor Hill, Aba, Abia state, had a hectic time Sunday, dispersing over 1,000 joggers who came for their usual morning exercise in the area. Some of the joggers resisted the police team who blocked the junction warning them to return to their homes. Chanting solidarity songs, the joggers stormed a popular radio station in the area protesting the action of the police. They became irate and started throwing stones at the gate of the station. They were also heard singing that COVID-19 is a scam and urged the Police to allow them continue with their exercise. Meanwhile, tragedy struck in the area as a woman aged about 70, slumped and died at the popular Opobo junction. Eyewitnesses told Vanguard that the woman appeared to be on her way to church when she slumped in the area. She died before she could receive medical attention. “The woman fell down as she was walking. From the way she was dressed, she appeared like someone going to church. Everyone was shocked because she did not complain of any ill health. No one could even identify her. The police later took her away.” As at the time of filing this report, efforts to get the reaction of the Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Abia State Command, SP Geoffrey Ogbonna, was unsuccessful, as he could not take repeated calls placed to his mobile phone. VANGUARD TRAGEDY was yesterday, averted at Ogbor Hill, Aba, Abia State, when a van belonging to the Nigerian Police, lost brakes and crashed into roadside traders at the popular Opobo Junction. April 12, 2018 In "News" By Ugochukwu Alaribe & Eric Ugbor Tragedy struck in Aba, Abia State yesterday, as the state taskforce set up to enforce the lockdown, killed a Keke rider in the city. This is even as another tricycle rider reported earlier to have been killed as a result of a scuffle with… April 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Ugochukwu Alaribe & Eric Ugbor, Umuahia Tragedy struck in Aba, Abia state , as the state task force set up to enforce the lockdown, killed a Keke rider in the city. This is even as another tricycle rider reported earlier to have been killed as a result of a… April 17, 2020 In "News"