The UK is moving to drop Huawei as a vendor for the country’s 5G cellphone network in a major blow to Communist China over poor coronavirus transparency. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, now recovering from COVID-19, gave the Chinese company a role in 5G infrastructure this year, squashing opposition last month by 24 votes in the 650-seat House of Commons. But now, concern about the Chinese Communist Party’s inaccurate reporting on the coronavirus has lawmakers crafting plans for a retreat. “We need to devise a proper, realistic exit strategy from relying on Huawei,” Conservative Member of Parliament Damian Green told Bloomberg News. “Our telecom providers … need to know the government is determined to drive down Huawei’s involvement to zero percent over a realistic timescale.” “The mood in the parliamentary party has hardened,” said Tom Tugendhat, the Conservative Party’s chairman of the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee. “It’s a shared realization of what it means for dependence on a business that is part of a state that does not share our values,” Tugendhat said. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Friday that the pandemic originating in China shows why countries should avoid doing business with Huawei. President Trump suspended US funding for the World Health Organization this week, alleging it circulated false Chinese data on COVID-19, leaving other nations unprepared. The US viewed Johnson’s decision on Huawei as a major blow to the “five eyes” electronic surveillance alliance among the US, the UK, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. US officials fear China could use Huawei to collect intelligence. The UK has the world’s sixth-largest publicly acknowledged outbreak of the virus, with about 110,000 cases and more than 14,600 deaths. White House coronavirus coordinator Dr. Deborah Birx said at a recent press briefing that Chinese data in January led experts to believe the virus was less contagious, akin to the related virus SARS, leading to less concern among health officials. China increased its reported deaths from outbreak epicenter Wuhan by 50 percent on Friday. UK foreign minister Dominic Raab said Friday that “we can’t have business as usual after this crisis,” vowing “hard questions” for China and a “very, very deep dive” on the origins of the pandemic. NY Post Vanguard British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government is furious with Beijing for spreading disinformation about the coronavirus, including that American soldiers may have introduced it in China, and said there would be a “reckoning” when the pandemic ends, according to a report. “There is a disgusting disinformation campaign going on… March 31, 2020 In "Foreign" The UK government is expected to decide on whether to allow the technology giant Huawei to participate in its5G networks rollout. British officials will reportedly green light the use of Huawei equipment in such networks. The US has ramped up pressure on the UK government to exclude Huawei from the… January 28, 2020 In "Technology" Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei said Tuesday that "survival" was its top priority after announcing 2019 sales were expected to fall short of projections as a result of US sanctions. Huawei, a global leader in telecom networking equipment has been effectively banned by the United States from working with American firms… January 1, 2020 In "News"