The Chief Of Army Staff (COAS), Lt Gen Tukur  Buratai,has led troops to special forces push ups so as to further demonstrate the importance of physical fitness to the military. Butatai was at the Nigerian Army School of Infantry ,Jaji  near Kaduna on a one day working visit where he assessed  the level of a tailor made Special Forces training. This was contained in a statement signed by Col. Sagir Musa, Acting Director Army Public Relations,issued to Vanguard on Friday. The Special Forces  comprised of elements of 81 Battalion and newly formed 198 and 199 Special Forces Battalions. According to Maj Gen Kevin Aligbe ,the Commandant of the Nigerian Army School of Infantry (NASI), – “the officers and soldiers of these special units commenced the training on the 20th of January, 2020”. “The training which is for three consecutive months would be rounded up in the next two weeks,” he said. While addressing the troops, the COAS enjoined the them  to make the best use of the special training and new skills acquired which would certainly be useful in the course of their current and future deployments in the Nigerian Army. The extensively rigorous special training was facilitated by the StarterPoint Integrated Services. While going round the training area, General Buratai was  impressed with the level of organization, discipline and training which bordered on tactics, skills at arms, rescue operation, first aid, navigation, surveillance as well as survival skills. The trainees were equally elated to see the Buratai in their midst. They promised to give in their best as they look forward to their deployment in within  or outside Nigeria. The trainees will graduate soon. To further demonstrate the importance of physical fitness to military profession, ,Buratai led the troops to special forces’ push ups where the troops again became proudly excited. Thereafter, Gen Buratai proceeded to inspect the Nature Conservation Area initiated by NASI. The Conservation Area which was being developed within a themed park-zoo would provide a place for curiosity, research, leisure and entertainment  when finally completed. Before leaving Jaji Military Cantonment, the Army boss  and his entourage  inspected ongoing projects at the Martin Luther Agwai International Leadership and Peacekeeping Center. The last stop over during the visit was at the Command Engineering Depot Kaduna where the Buratai  inspected  various locally made armoured fighting vehicles at different levels of completion. He commended and  enjoined the Commander and his staff to keep up the ingenious work which have saved the Nation huge amount of foreign exchange which would have been spent on importation of similar vehicles. “This feat was in furtherance of the Federal Government’s Local Content Policy and the necessity of the service to manufacture some of its war fighting equipment especially that the same equipment are not easily acquirable in the open/international market,” he said. Vanguard The Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, said army authorities had approved the establishment of a ‘Special Forces Battalion’ Barracks to be located in Okene, Kogi. April 6, 2019 In "News" The Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai said army authorities had approved the establishment of a ‘Special Forces Battalion’ Barracks to be located in Okene, Kogi. April 6, 2019 In "News" By Okanga Agila Often times, I hear Nigerians refer to the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) and leader of the counter insurgency operations in Nigeria, Lt. Gen. Tukur Yusufu Buratai as the digital Army Chief. This epaulet on the COAS is not fancy, but a true reflection of the leadership… June 13, 2019 In "Viewpoint"