The Federal Government said yesterday that wearing of face mask in markets across the country would become compulsory. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Richard Adeniyi Adebayo who disclosed this in Abuja at the weekly engagement with the Emergency Operation Centre of the Committee On Sustainable Production/Delivery of Essential Commodities during COVID-19, said:  “I need to stress that, while there is an undeniable need for markets to be opened on some days for people to restock on household supplies, it is most important for the set protocol to be complied with during the process. ‘’The use of face masks and hand sanitisers on market days are non-negotiable to limit the spread of the virus until the scourge blows over.” Adebayo also used the forum to call on security operatives to allow farmers access their farms for necessary farm activities, such as fertilizing and harvest in order to ensure food sufficiency during COVID-19 and beyond. ‘’The farmers must wear their face masks as well as observe other preventive measures before they are let through. “ The synergy between our law enforcement agencies, our essential goods manufacturers and the producers and the Ministry, has allowed us to be able to meet critical demands at this time.’’ Vanguard By Victoria Ojeme The Federal Government has Called For Compulsory Wear Of Face Masks In Market Places. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Richard Adeniyi Adebayo who disclosed this in Abuja at the weekly engagement with the Emergency Operation Centre (EOC) of the Committee On Sustainable Production/Delivery of Essential… April 23, 2020 In "News" LAGOS—GOVERNOR Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, yesterday, declared that the enforcement of wearing of face mask in public places in the state will commence next week. April 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Federal Government said yesterday that Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, was not conducting enough test because it was best to do the test when a patient is symptomatic. April 14, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"