The former Speaker, Jigawa State Assembly, Rt. Hon. Adamu Ahmed Sarawa has been reported dead, he died at the age 66 after a protractness illness. A two-term speaker for two consecutive terms (2007-2015) under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) led former governor Sule Lamido regime, he was the longest-serving speaker since the creation of the state in 1991 who had never faced any impeachment threat. In his lifetime, he was adjudged to be extremely patient and had a harmonious working relationship with his colleagues and the executive arms of government. Late Atmos hailed from Gurgun Daho village in Kafin Hausa Local Government Area of Jigawa State, he was a one-time chairman of Kafin-Hausa, majority leader in the state assembly under former ANPP-led Ibrahim Saminu Turaki. He led Jigawa State Pilgrims delegations as Amirul Hajj several times. History will continue to remember late Atmos for his unquestionable loyalty to former Governor Sule Lamido in spite of his health condition, he was always with the former governor. The deceased died on Monday night in Kano and will be buried at his home town Gurgun Daho of Kafin Hausa local government according to Islamic rites. He left behind two wives and many children. Vanguard THE Seventh Jigawa State House of Assembly consists of 30 members and 29 of them were elected on the plank of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) won the remaining seat (Hadejia constituency). July 20, 2011 In "Politics" He was a former governor of Jigawa State (1999-2007) and later elected Senator (2007-2011). He was also a successful and International business man even before he ventured into politics, a dogged fighter with high record of benevolence, he ruled the state for eight years and his influence cannot be wished… August 18, 2018 In "News" A Lebanese, Mr. Tony Saye, has been summoned by the House of Representatives for abandoning the Ajingi-Jahun-Kafin Hausa road project in Jigawa State. October 11, 2012 In "News"