The son of former Vice President Abubakar Atiku has spoken from his COVID-19 isolation centre optimistic that he will soon be out. Mohammed Atiku explained that he was asymptomatic in his first few days at the isolation centre and nervous; “I had a level of anxiety and a little bit of trauma, especially being the index case here in Abuja. That was really the main challenge.” The younger Atiku said: “On the 20th of (March), I tested positive for COVID-19 and I was brought over to the Isolation Centre at Gwagwalada University Teaching Hospital where I have been since. “I am currently on my 12th day here and I hope to be out soon – perhaps when my next test is taken and the results are favourable. I should be on my way out, hopefully. “I decided to do this video so that I could speak about my experience to be of help to Nigerians. “I was asymptomatic in my first few days here and nervous; I had a level of anxiety and a little bit of trauma, especially being the index case here in Abuja. That was really the main challenge. “But day by day, I grew stronger, thanks largely to all the goodwill and prayers and support I got from a vast array of Nigerians many of whom I don’t know. My family and friends too and a whole lot of people. “I thank God I am well and good,” Atiku said. Vanguard Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, who spoke while in self-isolation, has assured the citizens of the state and other Nigerians that he is stable and doing well. April 1, 2020 In "News" The American returnee who became the index case in Oyo State has been discharged after completing his round of treatment. This is just as the Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde on Monday confirmed he has tested positive to the rampaging coronavirus otherwise known as COVID-19. The governor who tweeted… March 31, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" HAVING been tested positive for Coronavirus, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo on Monday said that he remained asymptomatic and would remain in isolation till he fully recovers from the viru March 30, 2020 In "News"