Mafo crooner, Afeez Fashola better known as Naira Marley has been arrested by the Nigeria Police following his violation of lockdown order in Lagos. On Sunday, the singer had been ordered to appear before the Police on Monday following the arrest of the popular Nollywood actress, Funke Akindele, who hosted an house party to mark her husband, JJC Skillz’ birthday in her house in Lagos on Saturday. The celebrity couple were arraigned and sentenced on Monday at Ogba Chief Magistrates Court in Lagos for violating both Federal and Lagos State directives on Covid-19 lockdown by hosting a party with more than 20 guests in attendance including popular politician, Babatunde Gbadamosi and Naira Marley. According to DSP Bala Elkana, Police Public Relations Officer, Lagos State Command, on Monday, Naira Marley has been arrested and he will also be charged to Court for violating the restriction orders. He said the Command has also launched a manhunt for the remaining persons who attended the party. Elkana stated that the Commissioner of Police Lagos State Command, CP Hakeem Odumosu expressed his profound gratitude to Lagosians and other well meaning Nigerians that speak up against the violations. “Together we can stop the spread of COVID-19,” the Lagos PPRO stated in a statement. VANGUARD By David Royal The Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the Governor of Lagos State on New Media, Gawat Jubril on Sunday evening said that the Lagos state government is making efforts to apprehend Funke Akindele's husband, Abdul Rasheed Bello and others who were involved in the birthday party on Saturday… April 5, 2020 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni & David Royal The Lagos State Police Command said it has arrested Nollywood star,  Funke Akindele for defying government's order on social distancing to contain the spread of coronavirus in the country. Funke's arrest was confirmed on twitter by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor of… April 5, 2020 In "Entertainment" The Lagos State Police Command said on Sunday the popular Nollywood actress, Funke Akindele, has been arrested for throwing a party in violation of the government’s restriction of public gatherings. The command spokesman, Bala Elkana, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday. He said: “The attention of state Police Command… April 5, 2020 In "News"