It is not all gloom in Lagos State, the epicentre of COVID-19 in Nigeria as Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu announced that 10 more patients have fully recovered and have been discharged from isolation facilities. Sanwo-Olu revealed that of the 10, three are females and the other seven males including foreigners. In a short message of solidarity and encouragement to Lagosians, the governor reiterated that social distancing is still ket of steering clear of the disease and everybody should “stay at home.” Sanwo-Olu said: “Even with the number of cases rising, we are happy to celebrate our success stories because they show that a positive #COVID19 case isn’t necessarily a case of doom and gloom. Today,10 patients; 3 females & 7 males including 3 foreigners have been discharged from our facilities “We are encouraged by these discharged cases and the support we have received from the citizens of the state in the battle against #COVID19 but I urge us all not to relent because it is imperative that we win. “Remember to practice great personal hygiene and join our #MaskUpLagos campaign by using a facemask whenever you are in public. Social distancing is still very key in stopping the spread and we must #StayHomeStaySafe to #SaveLives Together, we will beat #COVID19,” the governor said. Even with the number of cases rising, we are happy to celebrate our success stories because they show that a positive #COVID19 case isn’t necessarily a case of doom and gloom. Today,10 patients; 3 females & 7 males including 3 foreigners have been discharged from our facilities pic.twitter.com/y58Yu2VEkM — Babajide Sanwo-Olu (@jidesanwoolu) April 24, 2020  Vanguard Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State says another seven COVID-19 patients have recovered from the virus and freed to go home from the Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba. These brought the number of discharged patients in Lagos State to 39. Sanwo-Olu, through his verified Twitter handle on Thursday, said the… April 9, 2020 In "News" Victor Ogunyinka The Lagos State Ministry of Health has announced that four males including an 11-year-old boy have been discharged from COVID-19 isolation facilities. Three of the patients were formerly at the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Yaba and one from the Lagos University Teaching Hospital. This brings the total number of… April 11, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" GOVERNOR Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, yesterday, disclosed that the state government will commence a door-to-door testing of residents of the state to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"