Donald Trump’s administration said Friday the United States will sell ventilators to at least four developing countries to fight the coronavirus, saying US needs were being met. Trump said he spoke by telephone to the presidents of Indonesia, Ecuador, El Salvador and Honduras and promised that the United States would send the vital medical equipment. “We will be sending them desperately needed Ventilators, of which we have recently manufactured many, and helping them in other ways,” Trump wrote on Twitter of his call to President Lenin Moreno of Ecuador, which has seen a spike in coronavirus cases. Michael Kozak, the top US diplomat for Latin America, confirmed the United States was selling the ventilators. “We’re seeing our own needs met; we can become an exporter again,” Kozak told reporters. “I think in many of these cases that the countries just want to buy them. They aren’t asking us for financing,” he said. But Kozak said some countries may use assistance from the United States to make the purchases. Governors led by New York’s Andrew Cuomo said they were seriously short of ventilators at the start of the pandemic and had faulted the federal government. But Cuomo last week said New York would send ventilators to Michigan and Maryland as the situation had stabilized in his own state — the worst-hit by the pandemic that has killed more than 50,000 people in the United States. With companies such as Ford and General Motors switching to ventilator production, Trump has boasted that the country as a whole is in good shape and said foreign leaders were asking him for supplies. “No country is equipped like we are. We have 11 different places making ventilators,” Trump told reporters Thursday. “Our country, as you know, doesn’t need them now. Our governors are very happy,” Trump said. In his tweets, Trump praised Honduras and El Salvador for helping curb emigration to the United States — a signature issue for the mogul-turned-president. Guatemala is also a major source of migrants but has temporarily stopped accepting deported citizens from the United States due to coronavirus infections. Kozak said that Guatemala — not mentioned in Trump’s tweets on ventilators — was not being punished. “There isn’t some hard linkage here between cooperation on removals and ventilators. We’re trying to get medicine and medical supplies to anybody who needs them” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Russia would accept a “kind offer” by U.S. President Donald Trump to ship ventilators to the country if it felt it needed them to treat people sick with the novel coronavirus, the Kremlin said on Thursday. Russia, which has so far recorded 27,938 cases and 232 coronavirus-related deaths, shipped ventilators… April 16, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" United States President, Donald Trump, issued a federal order Friday to force auto giant General Motors to manufacture ventilators, as supplies of the crucial hospital equipment grow short and coronavirus infections mount across the country. Trump invoked the rarely-used Defense Production Act (DPA) to order GM to speed up its… March 28, 2020 In "Foreign" By Emmanuel Aziken The global coronavirus pandemic has seemingly struck the chord of charity among Nigeria’s ruling class. The members of the House of Representatives said this week that they would donate two months’ salary to the COVID-19 relief efforts. As with everything money concerning the National Assembly, the donation… April 4, 2020 In "Political Notes"