TRADITIONAL Prime Minister of Tuomo kingdom in Delta and Bayelsa States, Chief Mike Loyibo, has described the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as a man who has left an ineligible and uncommon footprint in the political history of Nigeria. Chief Loyibo in a statement, Friday, commended the former labour leader for his achievements and service to his fatherland. He said: “In your 68years sojourn on earth, you have devoted your time and energy to fight for the oppressed and downtrodden even while serving as a labour leader. “As governor in Edo State, you left uncommon footprints that is yet to be surpassed, as national chairman of APC, you have been able to pilot the party into becoming a friendly presiding officer in the National Assembly to help Mr. President bring the desired next level agenda. “Discipline has been restored to the party and under you, the party has been returned back to the people and on behalf of the entire Ijaw nation, I say a happy congratulations to you. “I am confident that your uncommon threads of patriotism and unyielding idealism towards the welfare of all as exemplified by your activism as well as progressive ideas will continue to yield fruition in the years ahead. “It’s our prayer that in good health, you will continue to be available to your fatherland.” VANGUARD By Chancel Sunday Niger Delta Leaders and Stakeholders Forum, NDLSF, has said they supported the embattled national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Mr Adams Oshiomhole because he was wrongly profiled and persecuted by a cabal in the party. The leaders who took the position after a meeting yesterday,… March 14, 2020 In "News" By Chancel Sunday Niger Delta Leaders and Stakeholders Forum, NDLSF, has said they supported the embattled national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Mr Adams Oshiomhole because he was wrongly profiled and persecuted by a cabal in the party. The leaders who took the position after a meeting Saturday,… March 14, 2020 In "News" By Perez Brisibe NIGER Delta activist, Chief Mike Loyibo, has cautioned the chief security officer and governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki to ensure that those who assaulted the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole are arrested and brought to book. Describing the attack on… October 14, 2019 In "News"