AS the World Health Organisation, WHO, celebrates the nursing profession by making the theme of the 2020 World Health Day to be “Support Nurses and Midwives,” the  Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, has asked for a healthy and dignifying working environment for health workers in the country. The body in a statement hailing the contributions of nurses and midwives in the country, noted that the “circumstances may expose them to dangerous health risks and even death while saving other lives.” In the statement by its president, Dr Francis Faduyile, NMA said, it “Acknowledges the enormous contributions of our nurses and midwives in the health sector and the country. “The President and the entire members of NMA congratulate healthcare professionals in Nigeria and especially the frontline health workforce on the occasion of the 2020 World Health Day. “The NMA acknowledges the enormous contributions of our nurses and midwives in the health sector and the country. READ ALSO: World Health Day: Obaseki hails health workers’ role in curbing COVID-19 pandemic “Nurses and midwives sometimes work under intense pressure, high workload and very inhumane conditions, especially in fragile health systems. “These circumstances may expose them to dangerous health risks and even death while saving other lives.” “We, in the NMA, have opened another chapter of warmer relationship based on mutual respect and acknowledgement of our different but inter-dependent roles in the health sector. “We pledge to continue on this path for better patient outcomes and the good of our country, Nigeria. “We also note with particular concern hazards all healthcare professionals, including nurses working at the frontlines of the war against COVID-19 face continually. “It is our prayer that those in authority will do all it takes to ensure a healthy working environment that is ennobling and dignifying.” Vanguard The World Health Organisation (WHO) Regional Office for Africa in Brazzaville, Congo, has paid tribute to all healthcare workers battling the novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) around the world. The UN’s health agency paid the tribute on its official twitter account @WHOAFRO to commemorate the World Health Day. The World Health Day… April 7, 2020 In "News" ...Affirms Support for the Fight Against COVID-19 Polaris Bank has paid tribute to health workers in Nigeria and across the world even as the world commemorates the 2020 World Health Day. This year’s event is coming on the heels of the breakout of the coronavirus pandemic that is currently ravaging… April 7, 2020 In "News" ABUJA -  In order to fast-track the reduction of maternal mortality and infant death in Nigeria, the United Nations Population Fund, UNPFA, and the wife of the Senate President, Toyin Saraki, have advocated for improved working conditions for midwives in the country. May 9, 2018 In "News"