British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s partner Carrie Symonds on Wednesday gave birth to a “healthy baby boy” in a London hospital, a spokesman for the couple said. The news came as a surprise, as Symonds, 32, was not thought to be due for several weeks, but she was said to be doing “very well”. The birth comes just days after Johnson, 55, returned to work after being admitted to hospital with coronavirus, including three nights in intensive care. “The prime minister and Ms Symonds are thrilled to announce the birth of a healthy baby boy at a London hospital earlier this morning,” the spokesman said. “Both mother and baby are doing very well. “The prime minister and Ms Symonds would like to thank the fantastic NHS (state-run National Health Service) maternity team.” The announcement of the new baby boy explains why Downing Street officials were reluctant to confirm that Johnson would appear at his weekly question and answer session with members of parliament. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, who deputised for him during his illness, is expected to take his place later on Wednesday. Johnson is believed to have at least five children, including four with his second wife, Marina Wheeler, from whom he split in 2018. He has been publicly dating Symonds, a former head of communications for the Conservative party, since early 2019. They announced in February that they were getting married and expecting a baby “in the early summer”. On her Instagram page, which is set to private but details of which were reported in the media, Symonds revealed they got engaged at the end of last year. Johnson only returned to work on Monday, two weeks after being discharged from hospital for an illness that he said “could have gone either way”. Symonds had moved out of their Downing Street flat before he became ill, but later reported having symptoms of coronavirus herself. She recovered at home. She has kept a low profile as the “first girlfriend”, largely keeping out of the election campaign last December that saw Johnson win the best result for the Conservatives since the 1980s. An avid environmental campaigner, after leaving the Conservative party she worked for an ocean conservation charity. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Boris Johnson and his girlfriend Carrie Symonds are engaged and expecting a baby in early summer. The Prime Minister is already a father-of-five, however, this will be the first child born to his 31-year-old partner. Mr Johnson recently finalised his divorce with estranged wife Marina Wheeler, with whom he has… February 29, 2020 In "Foreign" Boris Johnson was tonight taken out of intensive care in a sign he is winning his coronavirus battle. The Prime Minister, who has been in hospital since Sunday, has spent three nights in a high-dependency unit at St Thomas's Hospital in central London after his condition deteriorated. The announcement came… April 9, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Boris Johnson has been admitted to hospital ten days after testing positive for coronavirus, Downing Street announced tonight. The Prime Minister, who is still suffering from the symptoms of the disease, will undergo tests as a precaution. A Downing Street spokesperson said: 'On the advice of his doctor, the Prime… April 5, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"