MultiChoice Nigeria has announced a number of initiatives to support the Federal and Lagos Governments’ efforts in ameliorating the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak in Nigeria. The leading entertainment and media company’s contribution in the fight against Covid-19 includes cash support of N200m and N50m to the Federal and Lagos State Governments respectively, the donation of 10,000 certified test kits to the NCDC, Public Service Announcement Covid-19 prevention tips in English, Pidgin, Ibo, Yoruba and Hausa languages as well as approved inventory worth over N550m highlighting the NCDC’s Covid-19 Helplines and PSAs on more than 10 channels across DStv and GOtv. The company will also cover the remuneration for engaged creative industry professionals whose productions have been disrupted, with a committed sum of up to N400m. MultiChoice Nigeria’s intervention, in line with its values as a responsible corporate organisation and leader in the media and creative sector, is aimed at supporting the authorities in fighting the pandemic and reducing its attendant impact on Nigeria’s national economy According to the Chairman MultiChoice Nigeria, Mr. Adewunmi Ogunsanya (SAN) “We are donating 10,000 certified test kits to support the great work being done by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Federal Ministry of Health. In addition to these, we are also contributing N250 million to the Federal and Lagos State Governments’ efforts in providing adequate healthcare delivery facilities to fight Covid-19. We are doing this because we recognize the impact that the Covid-19 pandemic has on Nigerians and the economy.” Speaking in tge same vein, John Ugbe, the CEO of MultiChoice Nigeria said  “We have committed N550million worth of inventory to public service announcements in our indigenous languages in addition to English and Pidgin to ensure that every Nigerian understands how to prevent Covid-19 or call for help through the NCDC helplines. Also, the creative industry salary payment of up to N400 million will offer a much needed financial reprieve for producers, actors, and technical talent currently contracted to MultiChoice Nigeria, whose livelihoods have been disrupted by the pandemic.” VANGUARD MultiChoice Nigeria has announced a number of initiatives to support the Federal and Lagos Governments’ efforts in ameliorating the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak in Nigeria. The leading entertainment and media company’s contribution in the fight against COVID-19 includes cash support of N200m and N50m to the Federal and Lagos… April 3, 2020 In "News" In the face of huge global demand, the management of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency NIMASA, has donated 20 ventilators to fight the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in Nigeria. The Agency’s Director General, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, who made this known in Lagos also announced the donation of a total… March 31, 2020 In "News" By Rasheed Sobowale The richest man in Africa and Founder & Chairman of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, stated on Sunday he has tested negative to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) disease. Dangote, recently, along with Herber Wigwe spearheaded a coalition of Organised Private Sector, OPS, to support the Federal Government’s ongoing… March 29, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"