Alhaja Abebi, Zinat Omotonwo, mother of the Chairman, NURTW Lagos State, Alhaji Musiliu, Ayinde Akinsanya (MC Oluomo), has passed away early Thursday morning. This was disclosed in a statement issued by MC Oluomo’s Media and Publicity team on Thursday Morning. The aged woman, who was 87,  and a Muslim until her death passed away peacefully in her Lagos residence located near Ejigbo, NNPC. In accordance with the Islamic rites, she will be buried today (Thursday) at her residence, the statement read. The members of the family, however, appreciate everyone that has been calling to condole with the family since the news. They appreciate their concerns and uses this avenue to inform them that the burial will be attended strictly by family members Only. “We appreciate and understand that there are so many people who would have loved to pay their last respect to our late Mother Alhaja Abebi Zinat Omotonwo but will be unable to do so due to the present ban on large gatherings. “Please no visitation is allowed, for now, phone call or text messages will be appreciated. Thanks for your understanding and Cooperation”. Vanguard News Nigeria LAGOS—Calm has since returned to troubled Mosaku street in Oshodi area of Lagos after gunmen suspected to be members of a rival faction of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, Oshodi, shot dead one Olayinka Mamowora aka Mamok on Wednesday, September, 30. October 2, 2015 In "News" LAGOS—RESIDENTS and motorists around Oshodi area of Lagos State have continued to live in fear following rumours making the rounds of possible breakdown of law and order in the area to protest the attack on the state Treasurer of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, Musiliu Akinsanya, aka… January 14, 2019 In "News" The Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Lagos State, Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly called MC Oluomo, has said he is talking to the Lagos State Government to review the ban and restriction on motorcycle and tricycle riders in the state. This was disclosed to newsmen on Monday through… February 4, 2020 In "News"