Following a series of exciting regional auditions, rigorous training at Bootcamp and the suspense-filled judges’ stage shows, Loven has emerged winner of the maiden edition of Access The Stars. The announcement was made at the show’s, first of its kind, e-Finale on April 11, 2020. As promised, Loven went home with the much-coveted grand prize worth N150,000,000 (One Hundred and Fifty Million Naira). The first and second runners up, ‘Kitay’ and ‘Firefly’, were also awarded consolation prizes. Charles Akinloye, popularly known as ‘Loven’ charmed his way through the audition stages in Lagos with his unique voice and singing technique of infusing a bit of a fuji to his performances. Apart from his keen interest in music, he is also a makeup artist and a stylist. He is a multi-talented and prolific singer and songwriter. He is a recording artist who has a couple of tracks to his credit; one of which is “ADUNNI” a love song where he displays his commendable songwriting prowess. The Access The Stars grand finale kicked off with a live pre-show party on Instagram Live which featured hits by DJ Spinall as he entertained the audience in anticipation of the live finale on YouTube. The much-awaited grand finale show witnessed great performances from the top four contestants, Kaffy and Darey. The show wrapped up with an after-party on Instagram Live hosted by DJ Cuppy. The ‘Access The Stars’ platform was created for exceptional and inspirational Nigerians in the music industry to be discovered, refined, and empowered to reach higher heights by accessing their star potential. The project sought to give budding young talents a chance to perform alongside some of the biggest music stars in the country and it fulfilled that promise. VANGUARD By Ayo Onikoyi The top ten contestants who made it to the semi-final are tasked with securing one of the six spots in the finale. With N150,000,000 (One Hundred and Fifty Million Naira) worth of prizes in cash, a brand-new car and a management contract up for grabs, the contestants… April 4, 2020 In "Entertainment" By Ayo Onikoyi The last episode saw Mimi Victor, Olutunz, Gabriel Songz and SlyWonder say goodbye as they were evicted from Bootcamp, leaving Ada Gold, Loven, Firefly and Kitay crossing the finish line to make it into the finals. However, there can only be one winner. Viewers who have had… April 11, 2020 In "Entertainment" Twenty-five year old Ayobami Ayoola last Saturday emerged the star prize winner of MTN sponsored Project Fame West Africa (season five), smiling home with a brand new Toyota Rav4, N2.5 million and a mouth-watering one year recording contract. October 5, 2012 In "Showtime People"