A coalition of some non- governmental organisations under the aegis of Nigeria Humanitarian Action, NIHA, has appealed to pharmaceutical companies in the country to contribute free anti-malaria drugs to eradicate the disease. The National Convener of NIHA, Mr Kleisaint Akor, who made the appeal in a statement in Abuja, said such gesture had become imperative to eradicate the disease which he regretted, was taking a toll on the teeming population, especially the vulnerable group in the country. The appeal came in the wake of last week’s donation of 60,000 packs of an anti-malaria drug, worth over N40 million to Kaduna State Government by Tradomed, a pharmaceutical company, based in the state. Akor, while commending Tradomed, for the gesture, insisted that it was time for other pharmaceutical companies in the country to toe similar path, saying such action would go a long way in addressing some of the country’s vulnerable groups’ health challenges. He described drug donation as necessary and valued when it meets the needs of those intended for. According to him, malaria is no doubt the most common sickness in Nigeria and most times unaffordable to many. He said in some cases, it was often difficult to get a drug that was very effective and affordable for malaria treatment like tradamol, which is in form of tea. The drug was delivered by Tradomed’s officials, led by Alhaji Abba Goji, Vice Chairman and Mr Charles Ihenacho, Managing Director. Speaking at the presentation, Goji said the world was currently focusing on the Coronavirus pandemic and paying less attention to other diseases, such as malaria, that were equally killing a large number of people. ”So in this battle for good health, Tradomed is taking it upon itself to donate its products as corporate social responsibility, to assist the people,” he said. Goji said that the gesture would be replicated across the 36 states of the federation. In commemoration of this year’s World Malaria Day, itel mobile, Africa leading mobile phone brand has partnered with Mopheth Pharmacy, a front line and leading Pharmacy to join the global fight against malaria as it marked World Malaria Day with the donation of treated mosquito nets, free medical tests and… April 26, 2018 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari said on Friday in New York said Nigeria would continue to work with development partners to strengthen the mechanisms for the implemention the newly launched Sustanable Development Goals(SDGs). He gave the assurance at an event organised by UN-AIDS titled: Strengthening the Means of Implementation of the SDGs… September 25, 2015 In "News" THE dream of access to cheap anti-malaria drugs in Nigeria is about to come true at long last. This development is being facilitated by the Partnership for Transforming Health Systems, PATHS2, a United Kingdom Department for International Development, DFID funded project. January 31, 2012 In "Health"