The National Human Rights Commission, NHRC, on Wednesday, said it was worried that within the initial lockdown period, security agents across the country, extra-judicially killed more Nigerians than the dreaded Coronavirus. The Commission, in a statement that was signed by its Executive Secretary, Mr. Tony Ojukwu, decried that whereas COVID-19 only led to the death of about 11 patients in the country as at last Tuesday, a total of 18 persons were illegally executed by law enforcement agents to enforce the lockdown regulations. It observed that out of 105 complaints/incidents of human rights violation it received and documented within the initial lockdown period, Lagos State had the highest recorded cases with 28 incidents, followed by the FCT, Abuja which had 10 recorded cases. The Commission also revealed that it got 8 documented incidents of extra-judicial killing that led to 18 deaths. It said that out of this number, 12 deaths were recorded in Kaduna State, Abia State recorded 2 deaths arising from 2 incidents; while Delta, Niger, Ebonyi and, Katsina States recorded 1 death each. Vanguard News Nigeria. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said on Tuesday it received 105 complaints of alleged rights violations by security agents during the initial lockdown from members of the public. President Muhammadu Buhari had on March 29 ordered a total cessation of movements in Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory… April 15, 2020 In "News" A Civil Society Organisation, CSO, Concerned Nigerians, CN, Saturday, raised the alarm over alleged killing of nine persons by security agents in four states and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, while enforcing Federal and State Governments’ lockdown and stay-at-home orders to contain the ravaging Coronavirus, COVID-19, pandemic. April 11, 2020 In "News" Expresses worrisome over human rights violations By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja A Civil Society Organisation, CSO, Concerned Nigerians, CN, Saturday, raised the alarm over alleged killing of nine persons by security agents in four states and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, while enforcing Federal and State Governments’ lockdown and stay-at-home… April 11, 2020 In "News"