Tragedy occurred late Thursday evening during restrictions of movement order when two fallen 20feet container laden trucks, a private tow truck and a towed Toyota Sienna involved in a multiple road crash along Apapa-Oshodi Express Road, enroute Cele Bus Stop, inward Oshodi, Lagos, killing one yet be identified man on the spot. According to source, the accident which claimed the life of a truck assistant of a private tow truck, occurred when the tow truck broke down along the Apapa – Oshodi Express Road, inward Oshodi, while efforts were being made to repair it, a faulty articulated truck conveying two 20feet containers which was on top speed, suddenly developed mechanical problems (break failure), and rammed into the parked tow truck and the towed vehicle. The ill-fated vehicles have all been evacuated by officials of Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, LASEMA, from the road, placed on a layby and handed over to members of the Nigerian Police Force present incident scene. The multiple accident also left the towed Sienna damaged beyond recognition, after the two units of 20feet containers fell off the articulated truck conveying them, onto the other vehicles on impact of the crash, then eventual recovery of all vehicles involved, utilising LASEMA’s heavy duty equipment (Crane), to set the road free for vehicular activities. According to Director-General, LASEMA, Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, “Preliminary report gathered at the scene of the incident revealed an accident which involved a truck with registration number APP 444 XV conveying  twin 20fts containers and a Toyota Sienna Bus with registration number SMK 22 AV which is being towed by a private towing truck with an unknown registration number. “Further investigations revealed that the tow truck broke down along the above mentioned corridor and efforts was being made by the operators to fix it before the truck which was on top speed suddenly developed break failure and rammed into the tow truck and the towed vehicle. “Unfortunately, the two containers fell off the truck and landed on the Toyota Sienna and the tow truck, killing the truck assistant of the truck at the spot and damaged the Sienna beyond recognition. “However, the commodity has been evacuated by the Nigerian Police, Ijesha division before the arrival of LASEMA Response Team. Vanguard By Olasunkanmi Akoni Tragedy occurred late Thursday evening during the ongoing restriction of movement order, when two fallen 20feet container laden trucks, a private tow truck and a towed Toyota Sienna involved in a multiple road crash along Apapa-Oshodi Express Road, en route Cele Bus Stop, inward Oshodi, Lagos, killing… April 3, 2020 In "Metro" A tanker driver and his conductor were Monday evening burnt to death as their 33, 000 litres capacity diesel laden truck went up in flames at Cele-bus stop inward Oshodi in Lagos. July 25, 2016 In "News" What could have been a major tragedy was on Saturday averted by the combined efforts of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) and the Lagos State Fire Service when a tanker fully loaded with 33,000 litres of PMS fell on the Anthony Bridge Inward Gbagada. December 24, 2016 In "News"