Renewable energy provider, Cloud Energy, has donated 100 Solar Home Systems, Sunboxes and a hybrid Solar System to Lagos State Government in support of its COVID-19 efforts. The donation was made to the office of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Government and Community Affairs, Dr. Salamm Olufemi Taiwo. Commissioner, Ministry for Energy and Mineral Resources, Engr. Olalere Odusote and the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, Abdul-Ahmed Mustapha, were among other key officials of the state government that received the donation. Making the donation, the MD/CEO, Cloud Energy, Theophilus Nweke, said the Lagos State Government has so far taken a single-minded approach and pro-active management of the challenges arising from the Corona Virus Pandemic and therefore deserved the support of meaningful Lagosians and corporate organizations in the state. He said: “This donation of One Hundred Sunboxes (Solar Home Systems) and Solar System to hospitals is intended to give more strength  to the State’s efforts to contain the Pandemic through the provision of light, information and entertainment to the Isolation Centers, This is partly in response to the World Health Organization’s assertion that information and publicity are central to the containment of COVID-19”. He said the equipment can be charged by Solar, and each comes standard with 3 bulbs, a solar panel, a radio, multiple headed phone charging cable, MP3 and an optional fan. The greatest appeal of the Sunbox is its multi-functional nature. It has often been used to light up homes and offices, information and entertainment from the Radio and MP3, walkways lighting and even security post lighting In response, the Commissioner, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, Engr. Odusote noted that “key to the efforts on the prevention of the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic is providing lighting and information to the people, especially those in the more remote areas of the state”. He added: “ It’s left for us to ensure that they (dwellers in remote areas) are comfortable and that they watch us on TV, listen to radio and are adequately informed on COVID-19”. He commended Cloud Energy for the donation, and assured that the Sunboxes would be deployed to select communities in the State while the Solar System will be deployed to a select hospital in the remote areas to provide electricity in support of the government efforts to rid the State of Covid19. VANGUARD The Lagos State Government has asked for Britain’s assistance to help it develop its energy sector, notably, power and solid minerals. April 23, 2013 In "Energy" The management of the Rural Electrification Agency, REA, said it has commenced emergency provision of solar mini-grid solutions in Primary Health Centres, COVID-19 isolation centres and NCDC reference laboratories across the country. April 5, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian government Wednesday received a grant of N2billion from the government of Japan to support the nation’s drive to boost power generation capacity, through solar energy. May 16, 2012 In "News"