THE Nigerian Army, Friday night said it has arrested the two soldiers behind the viral video threatening to unleash mayhem on women in Warri, Delta State over Thursday’s attack on military personnel during a protest by youths against the killing of one Joseph Pessu. The victim was killed by security operatives after he was alleged to have refused stopping at a checkpoint by the operatives who were monitoring the 14-days lockdown order by the state government. The army authorities in a tweet on its verified twitter handle @HQNigerianarmy, said the soldiers were arrested at the 9 Brigade Ikeja Military Cantonment Lagos State on Friday. The tweet reads: “The Nigerian Army wishes to reiterate that it would not tolerate any form of irresponsibility and indiscipline on the part of any of its personnel. “The general public should be assured that the investigations will be swift and fair in accordance with applicable military laws. Soldiers in a viral video using uncouth and uncivilized language purportedly threatening to molest women in Warri Delta State were arrested at 9 Brigade Ikeja Military Cantonment Lagos State today 3 April 2020 and further investigation is ongoing. 1/3 — Nigerian Army (@HQNigerianArmy) April 3, 2020 “The outcome of the investigations will determine the most appropriate disciplinary measures that can be taken in the circumstances. “Soldiers in a viral video using uncouth  and uncivilized language purportedly threatening to molest  women in Warri Delta State were arrested at 9 Brigade Ikeja Military Cantonment Lagos State today 3 April 2020 and further investigation is ongoing.” VANGUARD Hundreds of villagers, including women and children, fleeing from different Gbaramatu communities in Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State, following the siege by soldiers, have remained trapped in the bush for the past four days without food. June 1, 2016 In "News" “But we want you public to know that despite the heavy presence of military operatives, our activities can’t be stopped and it is just waste of fund and time to let the Nigeria military protect oil installations,” the militants added. The big-headed statement noticeably irked the authorities as a miffed… May 21, 2016 In "News" ABUJA—The reluctance of the Nigerian Army to release the Army captain and soldiers indicted in the killing of three operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Intelligence Response Team, IGP-IRT, in Taraba State, has stalled prosecution of the case. December 23, 2019 In "News"