The new Vice-Chancellor of Kwara State University (KWASU), Malete, Prof. Muhammed Akanbi  says he is committed to making the institution a world class university for learning, teaching and research. According to a statement issued on Wednesday by the Acting Director, University Relations, Mrs Hamida Yusuf, Akanbi made this known in Ilorin while speaking at his maiden meeting with principal officers, Deans  and Provosts  of colleges. The statement quoted the vice-chancellor as saying that no effort would be spared in the course of turning the university into a world class institution. ”As Vice-Chancellor, my aspiration is to make KWASU a place of opportunity and inspiration capable of attracting the most talented staff and students within Nigeria and internationally,” he said. Akanbi said he would be the driving force in shaping the institution’s future by providing strong intellectual, innovative and team leadership as well as strategic direction. ” I will ensure financial sustainability and maximise the efficient use of the university’s  resources and facilities,” he added. The vice chancellor, however,  called for high level of professionalism and support from all stakeholders to achieve success. The statement also quoted the former acting vice – chancellor of the institution, Prof. Sakah Mahmud, as expressing the desire of all staff to work with Akanbi to move the university forward. The Kwara State University, Malete, says 30 of its graduating students in the sixth convocation would be conferred with first class degrees. June 5, 2018 In "Education" Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, on Wednesday approved the appointment of Prof. Mustapha Mohammed-Akanbi as substantive Vice-Chancellor of the State University, Malete. The state’s Commissioner for Tertiary Education, Science, and Technology, Hajia, Sa’adatu Modibbo, disclosed this in a statement in Ilorin. Modibbo said that the appointment followed the recommendation of… April 1, 2020 In "News" Prof. AbdulRsheed Na’ Allah, Vice-Chancellor, Kwara State University (KWASU), Malete, says he has inaugurated a committee for the establishment of the centre for Nollywood studies in the University. December 15, 2014 In "Showtime People"