President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered a total lockdown of Kano State for two weeks. In a national broadcast on Monday evening, the President said the measure was to enable the Federal Government to contain the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. Buhari said that the revised guidelines will not apply to Kano State. He said,” As we continue to streamline our response in the centres of Lagos and the FCT, I am gravely concerned about the unfortunate developments in Kano in recent days. ” Although an in-depth investigation is still on-going, we have decided to deploy additional Federal Government manpower, material and technical resources to strengthen and support the State Government’s efforts, with immediate effect. ” In Kano, and indeed many other States that are recording new cases, preliminary findings show that such cases are mostly from interstate travel and emerging community transmission. ” With regard to Kano, I have directed the enforcement of a total lockdown for a period of two weeks effective immediately. “The Federal Government shall deploy all the necessary human, material and technical resources to support the State in controlling and containing the pandemic and preventing the risk of further spread to neighbouring States.” READ THE FULL TEXT OF PRESIDENT’S SPEECH Vanguard News Nigeria Peoples Redemption Party, PRP, has taken a swipe at President Muhammadu Buhari over planned extension of lockdown in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Lagos and Ogun states, saying he does not seem to appreciate the futility and ineffectiveness of lockdowns as a panacea to the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. April 14, 2020 In "News" By David Royal Nigeria has reported 20 new cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 343. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC on Monday announced that of the 20 new cases, 13 are recorded in Lagos, two in Edo, two in Kano, two in Ogun, one… April 14, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" In another 24 hours, Nigeria would have completed the 2nd phase of the lockdown (14 days to make 28) imposed on Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Ogun and Lagos states by President Muhammadu Buhari on March 29. April 26, 2020 In "News"