China’s foreign ministry said on Thursday the World Health Organisation (WHO) has said there is no evidence that the coronavirus that has infected more than two million people globally was made in a laboratory. Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian made the remark in response to a question about accusations the coronavirus originated in a lab in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. Wuhan was where the epidemic first emerged in late 2019. However, President Donald Trump said on Wednesday his government is trying to determine whether the coronavirus emanated from a lab in Wuhan. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Beijing “needs to come clean” on what they know. The source of the virus remains a mystery. Gen. Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said on Tuesday U.S. intelligence indicates that the coronavirus likely occurred naturally, as opposed to being created in a laboratory in China. But there is no certainty either way. Fox News reported on Wednesday that the virus originated in a Wuhan laboratory not as a bioweapon, but as part of China’s effort to demonstrate that its efforts to identify and combat viruses are equal to or greater than the capabilities of the U.S. This report and others have suggested the Wuhan lab where virology experiments take place and lax safety standards there led to someone getting infected and appearing at a nearby “wet” market, where the virus began to spread. At a White House news conference Trump was asked about the reports of the virus escaping from the Wuhan lab, and he said he was aware of them. “We are doing a very thorough examination of this horrible situation that happened,” he said. Trump has sought to stress strong U.S. ties with China during the pandemic as the U.S. has relied on China for personal protection equipment desperately needed by American medical workers. As far back as February, the Chinese state-backed Wuhan Institute of Virology dismissed rumuors that the virus may have been artificially synthesised at one of its laboratories or perhaps escaped from such a facility. Pompeo, in a Fox News Channel interview after Trump’s news conference, said “we know this virus originated in Wuhan,” and that the Institute of Virology is only a handful of miles away from the wet market. “We really need the Chinese government to open up” and help explain “exactly how this virus spread,” said Pompeo. “The Chinese government needs to come clean,” he said. The broad scientific consensus holds that SARS-CoV-2, the virus’ official name, originated in bats. Trump and other officials have expressed deep skepticism of China’s officially declared death toll from the virus of around 3,000 people, when the U.S. has a death toll of more than 20,000 and rising. He returned to the subject on Wednesday, saying the U.S. has more cases “because we do more reporting.” “Do you really believe those numbers in this vast country called China, and that they have a certain number of cases and a certain number of deaths; does anybody really believe that?” he said. Reuters Vanguard Nigeria News Doctors worldwide have been working tirelessly to stop the spread of COVID-19, the new coronavirus that has infected 76,000 people and killed over 2,200. But this week, 27 medical professionals from eight countries are announcing plans to stop the spread of something else: misinformation. February 23, 2020 In "News" Deputy Public Health Minister Satit Pitutecha has confirmed a fifth case of coronavirus infection has been detected in Thailand - a 33-year-old woman tourist from China. Mr Satit said on Friday the patient and her 7-year-old daughter by plane in Bangkok from Wuhan on Tuesday, ALSO READ: It’s too early to… January 24, 2020 In "Health" The fast-spreading coronavirus is starting to disrupt the testing of experimental medicines in China, posing a threat to plans by global drugmakers that have invested billions of dollars to harness the potential of the Asian economic powerhouse. The U.S. clinical trial database lists nearly 500 studies with a site in… February 13, 2020 In "Health"