ABUJA – Following the activation of about five mobile courts to try violators of its lockdown order, The Federal Capital Territory FCT Administration yesterday secured the conviction of no fewer than 20 of such violators. While they were fined between N1,000 and N5, 000, those with vehicles would only get them back after the lockdown has been lifted, with the likelihood of paying for demurrage. This was as the Administration disclosed its readiness to clamp down on residents who usually engage in early morning fitness exercises, especially jogging around town. Chairman of the Enforcement Team, Mr Ikharo Attah stated this while giving an update on the level of compliance with emergency regulations put in place by both the Federal Government and the FCT Administration to control the spread of the Novel Coronavirus. He said a fake policeman was also arrested in the Mpape area of the territory, adding that more mobile courts would be established soon. “We have at least five Mobile Courts and we are hoping to open more with the assistance of the Legal Unit of the Directorate of Road Traffic Services DRTS. “As of 1pm, we already secured 20 convictions, while two pleaded not guilty. We also arrested a man who is not a policeman but who was wearing a police face cap and he has been detained at the Police Station in Mpape. “We were on the Kubwa-Mpape road as early as 4am but we are going to tighten our grip on these areas because when we locked down Mpape to traffic, we discovered that residents were sneaking out massively on foot to access Maitama. “While we are continuing with our general enforcement, we are going to start arresting joggers as from Friday. We now have thousands of people coming out in some areas to jog, very early in the morning. We are going to arrest them”, he stated. VANGUARD Following the activation of about five mobile courts to try violators of its lockdown order, The Federal Capital Territory FCT Administration yesterday secured the conviction of no fewer than 20 of such violators. April 16, 2020 In "News" Driver arrested with 4 military caps as another strips, resists arrest By Omeiza Ajayi The Enforcement Team of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Administration has arrested the Chief Imam of Wuye District Mosque for violating the presidential lockdown order in the FCT which was put in place to control the spread… April 12, 2020 In "News" The Joint Operation Task -Team for the Enforcement of Federal Government’s lockdown order said it had impounded 51 cars, nine tricycles and 46 motorcycles in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the FCT, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, disclosed this in a statement on Saturday in… April 4, 2020 In "News"