As part of efforts to ensure the Coronavirus pandemic and its impact gets well-reported, the Wole Soyinka Centre for Investigative Journalism, WSCIJ, has started the ‘COVID-19 Reality Check project. The Executive Director WSCIJ, Motunrayo Alaka disclosed that the ‘COVID-19 Reality Check project’ was initiated to examine government interventions and promises in relation to the realities on the ground in terms of social welfare, water and sanitation, economics, security, food availability and accessibility, education, electric power supply, and more. According to her, “The WSCIJ and its partner, the MacArthur Foundation, will support reporters from various media organisations to better report such stories and point out gaps. The WSCIJ team held a virtual meeting with reporters recently to discuss the ramifications of the project. At the event, the team decided on strategies for crowdsourcing information to help reporters to do the work, mostly from home. The meeting laid emphasis on the safety of the chosen journalists who would have to go out to get their stories. “The project will include a media campaign on reports to support on-ground interventions by all stakeholders to save lives and reduce the impact of the pandemic on our country and by extension on the rest of the world”, she said. vanguard Victor Ogunyinka Following the postponement of the Integrity Award that Professor Yemi Osinbajo was shortlisted for, the Wole Soyinka Centre for Investigative Journalism (WSCIJ) has admitted that the statement of the Vice President was spot on. WSCIJ takes responsibility for the "in-house communication gap caused the difference in the use… December 10, 2019 In "News" ...in protest against Sowore’s rearrest ...says it is inappropriate Following the rearrest and continuous detention of Omoyele Sowore, the Wole Soyinka Centre for Investigative Journalism (WSCIJ) says it has postponed the integrity award to be presented to Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo to protest against the actions. In a statement on Monday,… December 9, 2019 In "News" A Human rights activist and lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana, has urged journalists not to peddle rumours in their quest to fight injustice in the country. Falana, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (NAN), gave the advice on Monday night at the 14th Wole Soyinka Award for Investigative Reporting at Ikeja, Lagos.… December 10, 2019 In "News"