The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has directed deposit money banks to attend to customers who wish to clear cheques. In a statement by Sam Okojere, Director, Banking Services Department, CBN, the apex bank said that the suspension placed on cheque clearing has been lifted effective April 28. CBN had on March 30, suspended cheque clearing following a directive on lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and Abuja announced by President Muhammadu Buhari. READ ALSO: Private sector donations hit N27.160bn — CBN “In furtherance of its effort in the development of a safe and efficient payments system in Nigeria, the bank in collaboration with relevant stakeholders has reviewed the need for cheque clearing to accommodate users of the cheque as one of the payment instruments in Nigeria, despite the lockdown of some states and FCT,” the statement published on the CBN website on Monday read. “In view of this development, the bank hereby lifts the temporary suspension of cheque clearing in Nigeria. Consequently, cheque instruments will be allowed to pass through the clearing system with effect from April 28, 2020. “Deposit money banks are encouraged to advise their customers of this directive.” Vanguard News Nigeria Babajide Komolafe The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Monday suspended the clearing of cheques until further notice. The decision, the apex court said was due to the government's restriction of movement in Lagos Abuja and Ogun and the need to ensure hitch-free clearing and settlement activities. The Director… March 30, 2020 In "Business" By Babajide Komolafe The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday said it has suspended the clearing of cheques till further notice. The apex bank said this development was in view of the locked down in Lagos State, Abuja and Ogun State and the need to ensure hitch-free clearing and settlement… March 30, 2020 In "News" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has postponed till March, the restriction on third party cheque withdrawal. The cashless policy announced last year banned withdrawal of third party cheques across the counter. “Value for such cheques shall be received through the clearing house,” said the CBN. January 9, 2012 In "Business"