The Nigerian Army on Saturday reported that the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt Gen TY Buratai, has relocated fully to the North East. Buratai from his new location according to the report will be overseeing and directing the overall operation in the theatre and other Nigerian Army operations across the country. The Nigerian Army Headquater in a press statement announcing the development said, “While addressing troops of Special Super Camp Ngamdu in Kaga Local Government Area of Borno State on 9 April 2020, Gen Buratai said that he will be with them to the nooks and crannies of the theatre. “It will be recalled that we earlier reported that the COAS had been on operational tour to troops’ locations in the North East Theatre of Operation since Saturday the 4th of April, 2020.” In another development, the Chadian President, Idriss Deby Itno, has said his country’s troops, who have been deployed to fight jihadists in the Lake Chad region and the Sahel, will no longer take part in military operations outside national borders. According to AFP report, the Chadian president told national TV in Arabic on Thursday “Our troops have died for Lake Chad and the Sahel. From today, no Chadian soldiers will take part in a military mission outside Chad,” The remarks were reported to have been broadcasted in French on Friday. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has tasked troops in the north east theatre of operation to braze up for the final defeat of insurgents. April 9, 2020 In "News" By Kingsley Omonobi Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Tukur Yusuf Buratal on Sunday, April 5, 2020 personally visited wounded soldiers who were injured in action during the recent confrontation between Boko Haram/ISWAP fighters and gallant troops of Nigerian military at Gorgi, Borno state, during which 29 Nigerian soldiers were… April 5, 2020 In "News" The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, says the Nigerian Army is making giant stride against Islamic States of West Africa Province (ISWAP) and Boko Haram terrorists in the North east. February 25, 2020 In "News"