Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, and his wife, Hafsat, have tested negative to Coronavirus. The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Abba Anwar, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday in Kano.‎ ‎He said: “We thank Almighty Allah for this result which shows negative. That is how He (Allah) wishes. All those whose results are positive, we will continue praying for their quick recovery from the illness, irrespective of race, nationality, ethnicity, social status, political or religious affiliations‎. “We also pray for Allah’s continued protection against COVID-19 in the state, the country and the world as a whole.‎ “While we pray for divine intervention we must make sure that we always listen to health professionals and work with professional advice.” He urged members of the public to wash their hands under running water with soap or hand sanitisers, keep a clean environment and practice social distancing.‎ “Staying at home is safer, healthier and most appropriate. I also urge Nigerians to strictly abide by directives given by the Federal Government as another mechanism in containing the spread of the disease,” the governor added. Ganduje reiterated the government’s commitment to sustaining proactive measures and collaboration with relevant organisations, agencies, and stakeholders to prevent the spread of COVID-19. “It is our responsibility to fight COVID-19 from all angles so as to have a safer and healthier society. “We thank Almighty Allah that up to this time there is no reported case in Kano. May Allah save those from other states in the country and other affected nations of the world,” he prayed. (NAN)  Vanguard   Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State and his wife, Hafsat Ganduje have tested negative to Coronavirus. April 2, 2020 In "Health" By Abdulmumin Murtala - Kano Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State and his wife Professor Hafsat Abdullahi Ganduje have both been tested negative for coronavirus (COVID-19), the deadly disease worrying global health and threatening nations of the world. "We thank Almighty Allah for this result which shows negative. That is… April 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" KANO - Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and Emir of Bichi, Nasiru Ado Bayero have called on residents in the state to embark on fasting to seek the intervention of God to overcome the Coronavirus pandemic. March 29, 2020 In "News"