Germany has granted Nigeria a debt relief worth €22.4 million (N8.9bn) due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Germany also noted it has pledged a total of €12 million (N4.8bn) in additional support to the West Africa Health Organisation, the regional health institution of the ECOWAS. In a statement on Tuesday, Germany, Europe’s largest economy, said the debt relief was in addition to its support of the pandemic response globally. It said: “In 2020, the German treasury relieves Nigeria of debt repayments amounting to €22.4 million (N8.9bn). ALSO READ: COVID-19: Two million people to be tested in three months ― NCDC “This comes in addition to Germany’s support to the COVID-19 response on a global level and the support provided by the European Union to partner countries in Africa worth €3.25 billion (N1.3 trillion). “On April 27, Germany pledged €300 million (N120bn) to the global humanitarian response plan launched by the United Nations to fight COVID-19.” Germany said its pledge is for the purchase of vital medical supplies, personnel training and facilitating cooperation across national and regional boundaries. German Foreign Minister, Heiko Maas, said: “Clearly, the current crisis goes beyond national and even continental borders and can only be fought effectively in a cooperative way. “We need more international cooperation, not less.” Vanguard The German government on Tuesday granted Nigeria a debt relief of N8.9 billion (€22.4 million) due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The European giants said in a statement in Abuja it has successfully campaigned in the G20 and the Paris Club group of creditor countries in favour of… April 28, 2020 In "News" --Calls for suspension of debt payments By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA - THE Organized labour in Nigeria has expressed displeasure over the exclusion of Nigeria among the 25 poor countries benefitting from the debt relief services by the International Monetary Fund, IMF. The generosity of the IMF, was to help the… April 14, 2020 In "News" The World Bank Group and International Monetary Fund (IMF) have said they were mobilising world resources to help Africa defeat COVID-19. The leaders of the two institutions held a virtual meeting with African leaders, bilateral partners, and multilateral institutions to spur faster action on COVID-19 response in African countries, they… April 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"