The President of the Commonwealth Medical Association (CMA), Dr. Osahon Enabulele, has urged Governments of various countries in the Commonwealth of Nations to urgently deploy more resources and provide adequate Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and other incentives for physicians and other health workers, to aid the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Enabulele in a world-wide broadcast to all physicians, health workers and citizens of the Commonwealth titled ‘A Message of Hope and A Call To Action’, highlighted the astronomical increase in the number of Commonwealth countries affected by COVID-19 with the unfortunate loss of physicians, health workers and citizens of the Commonwealth, as well as great disruptions of global interconnectedness, human industry, global health, security, socio-economic well-being and global prosperity. “Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has challenged our way of life, our health, our well-being and our prosperity”.
Wondering how physicians and other health workers were coping in the face of resource challenges and inadequacies, including inadequate Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and incentives for health workers, Enabulele expressed the CMA’s profound gratitude to physicians and other health workers, working admirably in teams and partnerships during the CMA’s site visitations to some hot spots, village clinics, district and tertiary hospitals. He called on Governments in the Commonwealth to urgently improve on their political will and commitments, and to deploy adequate and appropriate resources, including Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and incentives for Physicians and other health workers in the fight against COVID-19. While also appreciating the efforts of National Medical Associations, NMA, the World Health Organization, the Commonwealth Secretariat and the Commonwealth Secretary-General (Rt. Hon. Patricia Scotland QC), and the governments of the various countries, in strongly confronting this crippling global health challenge, he called on MAs in the Commonwealth to continue to adopt proactive, progressive, dynamic and pragmatic strategic approaches. Enabulele also called on everyone to actively participate in the global efforts to overcome COVID-19. ‘Everybody is called upon to see this as a patriotic duty; with the heightening of positive orientation, level of awareness and participation in the efforts to defeat the virus. The CMA is convinced that this global commitment must remain a ‘one for all and all for one’ fight against COVID-19’. Enabulele expressed great optimism that the world will overcome the COVID-19 pandemic. He hinged his optimism on previous global triumphs against some diseases that had ravaged several countries in the world, such as SARS, Swine Flu, Bird flu, and Ebola, as well as the progress so far made, particularly in Asia and some other countries, including those in the African region. He, therefore, called on physicians, health workers and citizens of the Commonwealth to have great hope, optimism and courage, in confronting the COVID-19 pandemic. In his words, ‘the daunting challenges notwithstanding, the progress so far made, particularly in China, demonstrates that COVID-19 can be defeated if there is sustained strong political will and commitment, backed with strong health institutional frameworks, adequate protection and incentivisation of health workers, citizen participation, and strict adherence to defined promotive, preventive and clinical care protocols’. While asserting that COVID-19 is not a death sentence, Enabulele advised those who may have been exposed or who may be ill with symptoms similar to those of COVID-19 (fever, cough, difficulty in breathing, e.t.c.) to urgently call their licensed physician or a healthcare provider or the numbers provided by the relevant health authorities. The CMA President reaffirmed the CMA’s commitment to fight along with WHO, the Commonwealth Secretariat, Governments, the private sector and the global community, to check the escalation of the virus. Vanguard Nigeria News By Chioma Obinna The President of the Commonwealth Medical Association (CMA), Dr. Osahon Enabulele, has urged Governments of various countries in the Commonwealth of Nations to urgently deploy more resources and provide adequate Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) incentives for physicians and other health workers, to aid the fight against the… April 10, 2020 In "Health" Dr. Osahon Enabulele is the President of Commonwealth Medical Association, CMA. Enabulele speaks to Sunday Vanguard on how well Nigeria can prevent the spread of COVID-19. March 1, 2020 In "News" President, CMA, Dr Osahon Enabulele By Chioma Obinna The President of Commonwealth Medical Association, Dr Osahon Enabulele  called for total closure of all entry points into Nigeria even as he urged the government to urgently deploy more facilities and resources to combat the coronavirus pandemic that has led to thousands… March 24, 2020 In "Health"