The Lagos State Government on Sunday announced the recovery and discharge of five more COVID-19 patients, having tested negative twice to the virus. Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos said  in a statement that the five patients included four females and one male. ”Dear citizens, as we commemorate the sacrifice of Love this Easter, I bring to you more awesome news from our isolation facilities. ”Today, five more patients; four females, and one male have been discharged to reunite with their families and the society. ”The patients were discharged having recovered fully and tested negative twice consecutively to #COVID19,” Sanwo-Olu, the COVID-19 Incident Commander said. He said that with the newly discharged patients, the state had a total of 55 people that had been successfully managed for COVID19 at its isolation facilities and discharged to the community. ”This news, especially on this auspicious day, gives me joy and happiness and I am sure it does to you too. ”While we look forward to more great news from our effort to contain the pandemic, let’s all continue to show love and sacrifice for the course of humanity. ”Stay at home, practice Social Distancing Principle, observe highest possible personal and hand hygiene and report suspicion to appropriate persons. ”Let’s continue to make the little sacrifices for the greater good,” the COVID-19 Incident Commander said. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Friday confirmed the discharge of an additional seven COVID-19 patients in the state. The figure brought the number of discharged coronavirus patients in Lagos to 46. Sanwo-Olu, who disclosed this through his verified Twitter handle, said the newly discharged patients were three females and… April 10, 2020 In "News" Seven more patients, consisting of three females and four males were on Friday, discharged from Infectious Disease Hospital, IDH, Yaba, Lagos, after they recovered from COVID-19. April 10, 2020 In "News" Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Friday announced the recovery and discharge of seven COVID-19 patients, bringing to 46 the number of discharged patients in the state. April 10, 2020 In "News"