After days of lockdown, the police are warning Nigerians especially Lagos residents to be on the alert because hoodlums maybe on the prowl from now. Their investigations informed this alarm. Already, they have received some reports of attacks at some bus stops at Mile 2 area of Lagos. Investigation carried out revealed that the hoodlums may even attack homes in densely populated areas of Lagos like Orile, Iyana-Ikpaja, Okokomaiko, Maza-Maza, Ijora Badia, Ajegunle, Mile2 bus stop, Second Rainbow, Ikeja under bridge, Obalende, Lekki-Epe expressway, Ikorodu, Mile 12, Ketu- Alapere, Ikotun, Dopemu, Ogba etc. Also, a trending recorded voice alert by one of the residents of the state has been alerting residents of plan by a gang of criminals to operate in many areas as they could no longer endure the continued lockdown in the state. The recorded male voice claimed he intercepted their plans while in a mini-bus popularly called keke operating in Orile-Ajegunle when four of the occupants spoke in a native language revealing their plans to attack people. Reports said that there was pandemonium Wednesday night at Maza-Maza area of the state after a gang of cultists and hoodlums clashed openly with youths who invaded the area attacking motorists, passers-by and even homes. The criminals who came in their numbers armed with dangerous weapons were shouting that they were tired of the lock down and started attacking anybody on sight including motorists and trucks drivers. They reportedly succeeded in dispossessing many people of their money and property but as they proceeded towards Agboju and Festac, angry youths in the area confronted them and during the scuffle that ensured, many of them were wounded. The timely intervention of the police from Agboju and Festac divisions saved the situation. At Ikeja under bridge, hoodlums who gather around the area have resorted to confronting anybody seen around, forcefully demanding for settlement with cash. Reports said that residents of adjoining streets around the area have been witnessing night attacks by the hoodlums who always escape after alarm was raised. Reports further revealed that in many of the densely populated suburbs of the city, petit thieves have resorted to stealing soup pots, food condiments and other items at night as a result of hunger caused by the lock down. A resident of Shibiri area intimated Vanguard that four thieves invaded some homes last Tuesday night and ordered the occupants to cook rice and stew for them. He further said that they held occupants of the homes hostage until the food was ready and they ate and left after spending over four hours with their victims. Police sources, however, hinted that there is a standing directive by the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, to the effect that Lagos must be properly policed especially during this period that criminals may explore the lockdown to unleash mayhem on people. Reports from Iba New site revealed that armed youths now invade homes and forcefully cart away cash and valuables. A resident of the area said they go in batches of ten and twenty armed with dangerous weapons including cutlasses, sticks, broken bottles etc. It was learned that many families are now living in fear while some had evacuated from the area for fear of being attacked. Crime Guard gathered further that other neighbouring communities are making frantic efforts to organise their youths in other to forestall such attacks. It was not possible to ascertain police reaction over the attack but a source said the few policemen in the division are busy on the highway carrying out the lockdown order while criminals are busy ravaging people’s homes inside. Vanguard News Nigeria. The popular and ever-busy Mile 2 in Amuwo-Odofin L.G.A., Lagos State, has turned into a hot crime spot. The area which serves as both entry and exit points to several major suburbs and even neighbouring countries like Cotonour, Seme etc, has turned into a nightmare to motorists and passersbye. In… November 2, 2013 In "Crime Guard" THE increasing rate of criminal activities in Mafoluku/Oshodi and Shogunle areas of Lagos State is taken a new dimension. It has heightened the fears of the residents as different criminal activities ranging from robbery, theft and vandalisation of cables of Power Holding Company, Nigeria, PHCN, and nocturnal attacks by hoodlums… May 2, 2012 In "Crime Alert" For Emmanuel Obasi, his decision to join a notorious robbery gang that operate within Maza-Maza and it’s environ in Lagos State, may not have been the best for him, following his recent arrest. The 28-year-old man who is now a guest at the State Special Anti-Robbery-Squad, SARS, is currently bemoaning… November 13, 2012 In "Crime Alert"