The Federal Road Safety Corps FRSC, has ordered immediate sanction on patrol team involved in trending video with a motorist in Abuja. The video which generated commentaries on social media was about a motorist who had an encounter with FRSC Personnel in the course of carrying out the ongoing enforcement of Presidential/National directive on ‘ Stay At Home’. The lady in the video narrated that she had refused to stop for law enforcers because they were without face masks to protect themselves from contracting or infecting motorists with coronavirus. According to FRSC in a statement on Wednesday evening issued by Bisi Kazeem fsi, Corps Commander Public Education Officer, the action of the Officers involved in the video is completely contrary to the Core Values and Operational Ethics of the Corps and the Corps frowns at it. It said “After a careful study and analysis of the video and what transpired in it, the Corps wishes to inform the public that the following proactive measures have been taken; “The Corps Marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi has ordered the immediate withdrawal of the entire FRSC Team involved in the unprofessional and uncivil act. “The action of the Officers involved in that episode is completely contrary to the Core Values and Operational Ethics of the Corps and the Corps frowns at it”. The Corps Marshal directed that the entire team be queried and sanctioned in accordance with FRSC relevant regulations on discipline. It further enjoined the public to remain calm & comply with all directives on stay at home & social distance and ensure that they cooperate with security operatives to enforce the Presidential Orders. Watch video of the FRSC and the motorist below: Vanguard Nigeria News The Corps Marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, has condemned the unprovoked attacks and molestation of operatives of the Federal Road Safety Corps on the highways and vowed to prosecute all those involved. July 18, 2017 In "News" THE Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, has vowed to dismiss from service any of its personnel found extorting motorists. Corps Public Education Officer, Mr. Bisi Kazeem gave the while reacting to the recent arrest of 37 FRSC operatives for alleged extortion of motorists on the highways. A team comprising the… August 24, 2019 In "News" Mr Sunday Ajayi, Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Anambra Command, on Monday warned motorists to desist from assaulting corps marshals on duty. Ajayi, who gave the warning in an interview with newsmen in Awka, said that motorist must obey both regular and special marshals on duty. November 30, 2015 In "News"