Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila has described as shocking and sad the passing away of the Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari. Gbajabiamila said it was unfortunate that Abba Kyari died as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is now ravaging countries all over the world, stressing that with his death and those of other Nigerians now, the country needed to immediately stop the spread of the pandemic and also treat those already infected. The Speaker said late Kyari would be remembered for his selfless and dedicated service to Nigeria right from his days as a private citizen through the time he served as the Chief of Staff to the President. In a condolence message by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker said Nigeria has lost a patriot in the person of Kyari. “With Kyari’s and other Nigerians’ death as a result of COVID-19 pandemic, the country needs to do everything possible to avoid further spread of the disease, while taking care of those that tested positive so far. “I am particularly saddened and shocked at the demise of the Chief of Staff to the President. Here was a person who was highly patriotic and who showed the highest level of commitment and dedication to duty. “Malam Abba Kyari would be remembered for his contributions to the development of the country at various stages of his life, including the last few years that he had served as the Chief of Staff to the President. “I believe Kyari died while serving the country as he contracted the disease during his trip to Germany in March on a national assignment as part of efforts to find a lasting solution to the intractable electricity problem in the country. “This is indeed a great loss to Nigeria. My thoughts and prayers are with his family at this trying time. I also want to extend my condolences to President Muhammadu Buhari for this loss. “Death is inevitable for every human. The deaths of Malam Abba Kyari and other Nigerians at this time call for us all to rise as a nation and fight the COVID-19 pandemic in every possible way we can. “Let’s all follow the guidelines set out by the authorities in preventing further spread of the virus. As leaders, we must also make conscious efforts at improving our healthcare system with a view to containing such pandemic. “While we all grieve, let’s pray that the Almighty God will grant the Chief of Staff and other Nigerians that died as a result of this pandemic a good resting place,” the Speaker said. Vanguard Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, last night regretted the current poor power supply in the country, declaring that making life more miserable for Nigerians who were on lockdown over the coronavirus pandemic was unacceptable. April 2, 2020 In "News" ABUJA-The Presidency has asked Senate President, Ahmed Lawan and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila to immediately direct all members of the National Assembly who recently returned from foreign trips to subject themselves to test for the deadly coronavirus. March 23, 2020 In "News" Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila has inquired of the whereabouts of the visiting Chinese medical personnel, saying that their activities in the country must the over-sighted by the parliament. April 9, 2020 In "News"