Brazil’s Health Minister Luiz Henrique Mandetta said Thursday he had been sacked by President Jair Bolsonaro, after weeks of clashes between the two over the country’s response to the coronavirus pandemic. Mandetta made the announcement on Twitter following a meeting with Bolsonaro at the presidential palace in the capital Brasilia. Their relationship had deteriorated since the start of the virus crisis. Mandetta promoted isolation as a tool to contain the spread of the virus, the threat of which Bolsonaro repeatedly claimed was overblown. The announcement had been expected for several days given the number of clashes between the pair and their seemingly incompatible outlooks. Soon after the announcement, people in several towns banged pots and pans to protest the minister’s sacking. Oncologist Nelson Teich is the favorite to replace Mandetta, according to several Brazilian media. Teich, another proponent of isolation, was in the running to be named health minister when Bolsonaro first assumed office, before the former army captain opted for Mandetta. Brazil, the largest country in South America with a population of 210 million, has recorded close to 2,000 deaths and more than 30,000 coronavirus cases. Authorities predict the peak of the outbreak in Brazil will come at the end of April or beginning of May. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro on Friday announced that he has tested negative for the coronavirus, contradicting earlier reports — including from his son — that he’d tested positive. Posts on his official Facebook and Twitter accounts said that “The Armed Forces Hospital and (diagnostic laboratory) Sabin have returned a negative… March 13, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Brazil's top football clubs are handing over their stadiums to allow health authorities to turn them into field hospitals and clinics to fight the coronavirus pandemic. With football in the country suspended until further notice, more than half the clubs in Brazil's Serie A have given up their stadiums as… March 22, 2020 In "Foreign" Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro said Friday the government will extend 40 billion reals (nearly $8 billion) in low-interest loans to small businesses hit by the coronavirus pandemic. Small and medium-sized businesses hit by COVID-19 containment measures will be able to take out loans at 3.75 percent interest -- well below… March 28, 2020 In "Foreign"