The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has said only President Muhammadu Buhari can take a decision on the extension of the lockdown in Lagos and Ogun states, including Abuja. The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 gave an update on the outbreak of coronavirus in the country. It said the president will decide whether or not to extend the lockdown. ALSO READ: Coronavirus: Oyo activates emergency operating centres, names incident manager The briefing held in Lagos. Chairman of the task force, Mr. Boss Mustapha, gave the opening remark while the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, also spoke to reporters. Mr. Mustapha, who is also the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, highlighted some of the new measures taken by the Federal Government to cushion the effect of COVID-19 on Nigerians. He specifically thanked the Lagos State government for its efforts, as well as the people of the state for their cooperation to curtail the spread of the disease. Mustapha added that field reports on the lockdown have shown some level of compliance with the order. He stressed the need for persuasion, saying the directive was not aimed at punishing any individual. The task force Chairman, however, appealed to the public for full cooperation in order to curtail the spread of COVID-19 and flatten the curve in the country. Also, Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, and Director-General of Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, also briefed reporters. Vanguard The Federal Government has said that the Chinese experts coming to Nigeria with globally scarce supplies in the fight against the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic would be subjected to established rules in the country. Dr Osagie Ehanire, Minister of Health, disclosed this at the Presidential Taskforce (PTF) briefing on COVID-19… April 7, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Over one fifth of the world’s population has been under lockdown in the global fight against coronavirus, Nigeria inclusive. According to the Director General of the World Health Organisation, WHO, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, countries need to lock down their populations and the period used to attack and prevent the spread… April 6, 2020 In "News" By Philip Agbese Nostradamus is famed globally as a man who saw tomorrow. He was a great seer, whom God endowed with unbeatable clairvoyance. He could predict the future events with amazing precision. He was venerated world-wide because his prophetic prowess and projections hardly missed the targets. President Muhammadu Buhari… April 3, 2020 In "Viewpoint"