The Police in Ebonyi State have arrested Vanguard Correspondent, Mr. Peter Okutu, on the orders of a local government chairman. The arrest was over a report Okutu did about military invasion of Umuogodoakpu-Ngbo in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the state. Okutu was arrested by armed men of the State Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, at Woodberry Hotel, Abakaliki, on the orders of the Ohaukwu Local Government Council Chairman, Mr. Clement Odah. Before his arrest, the Vanguard reporter, Okutu was invited by the Special Assistant on Media to the Governor, Mr. Francis Nwaze, over the report. The governor’s aide later asked Okutu to meet with Mr. Odah, the Council Chairman, to brief him on the true situation of the incident. Okutu was later contacted through his mobile phone by Mr. Odah, who asked him to meet him(Odah) at Woodberry Hotel, where he was arrested by waiting security operatives. Okutu, who had envisaged danger, went with a colleague from another national daily, to see the Council Chairman. ALSO READ: COVID-19: Gov. Umahi dissolves committee over border leakages At the hotel, it was gathered that Mr. Odah had queried Okutu, the Vanguard reporter, on the sources of his report and while he was still explaining to him, four SARS operatives emerged from within the hotel premises and took him away in a waiting Hilux van. This is coming three days after The Sun newspaper reporter, Agwu Chijioke, was arrested by the Police on the orders of the state governor, David Umahi, following a report he did about Lassa fever outbreak in the state. Agwu was later released. Contacted, the state Commissioner of Police, CP Awosola Awotinde, said he was not yet aware of the arrest, but promised to investiagate. Vanguard By Peter Okutu - Abakaliki Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi on Friday set up a seven-man committee to investigate the alleged clash between the Chairman of Ohaukwu local government area, Clement Odah and a Lawmaker, Chinedu Onah. The Committee is headed by former Ambassador to Greece and former Minister of… December 20, 2019 In "News" ONE suspected cultist in Ohaukwu local government area of Ebonyi state was yesterday killed following an alleged reprisal attack by a rivalry cult group (names withheld) which had been terrorising Ezzamgbo and Ngbo communities in the area. June 8, 2018 In "Crime Alert" EBONYI State Police command, yesterday, confirmed the arrest of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, councillorship aspirant in the just concluded primaries of the party, Mr. Odah Mmaduabuchi, over alleged certificate forgery and impersonation. August 22, 2013 In "News"