A frontline aspirant of the All Progressives Congress in Edo state, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu ahead 2020 governorship election yesterday condemned the level of insecurity in the state and streak of attacks on farmers in rural communities across the state which led to the killing of two farmers in Odighi, Ovia North-East local government area by suspected armed herdsmen. In a statement he issued, Ize-Iyamu expressed worry that there is a possibility of a clash between suspected hoodlums and security agencies as being witnessed in some states if the state government does not take appropriate steps to retrieve arms purportedly circulating in the state. He said with the recent attacks on the homes and offices of some politicians in the state, the government need to do more to retrieve such arms from circulation. He said: “The spate of violent attacks recorded in Edo state especially on farmers working to ensure availability of food to their families and in their communities in light of government failure and restrictions represents a grave concern and has caused a feeling of helplessness across the state.” “I received the unfortunate report of the killing of two farmers in Ovia North East Local Government by marauding herders. It is not the first time the state has recorded such deaths and people are increasingly losing faith in the government’s ability to carry out its primary objective of protecting their lives and welfare. “Only recently, the Governor of the State increased his security vote from 500 million naira monthly to 750 million naira, perhaps in acknowledgement of the worsening state of security under his watch. Worryingly, this improvement has sadly not reflected in the sum pledged to security agencies in the state and even their meagre stipends, according to what I’ve been told, has been irregular.” Vanguard BENIN CITY – THE crisis in Edo All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of this year’s governorship election escalated on Thursday  when the state governor, Godwin Obaseki called on all relevant security agencies to place the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2016 and now a chieftain of… February 13, 2020 In "Politics" THE crisis in Edo State All Progressives Congress, APC, ahead of this year’s governorship election escalated yesterday, with Governor Godwin Obaseki, calling on all relevant security agencies to place Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and other members of Edo Peoples Movement, EPM, under close surveillance in order to put an end to… February 14, 2020 In "News" BENIN—A governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressive Congress, APC, in the forthcoming governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu,  has alleged that his house was surveyed several times  by unidentified person for an alleged possible attack. March 11, 2020 In "News"