The Bauchi State Government says 19 people have lost their lives to Lassa fever in the state since January. The Deputy Governor, Alhaji Baba Tela, who is also the Chairman, Bauchi State Task Force Committee on COVID-19 and Lassa Fever, disclosed this at a news conference in Bauchi on Thursday. Tela also revealed that no fewer than 48 people were being monitored and undergoing treatment on the deadly disease in the state. “It is not as if we have gotten rid of Lassa fever completely in the state. “No! We have not. “So far as of week 14 of our campaign, the total number of deaths to Lassa fever is 19 and we don’t have any new case so far. “We are also following up contacts of about 48 persons. “Those 48 have been confirmed and are under medication and they are recovering very well,” Tela said. The deputy governor further urged residents to always report any suspected case of Lassa fever in the state as early diagnosis and treatment could help patients recover. He said that the state government would embark on massive sensitisation of the public to the nature of the disease. He said that in the course of sensitisation, the masses would be educated on what to do and what to abstain from. “The most important thing again on the issue of Lassa fever is public awareness and that is what we are trying to do – telling the people what to do and what not to do. “For example, we have been educating people not to touch the body of a relative who dies of the disease because one can get infected by touching the body. “We understand the pain of losing someone dear to you but people would say the last thing they would do for them is to wash them up in Islamic way and bury them. “But even doing that is creating more health hazard. “That is what we have been trying to inform people that they should try as long as the death is from Lassa fever, to quickly inform the authority so that something can be done about it,” the deputy governor advised. According to him, the state government has released N25 million as part of efforts targeted toward fighting Lassa fever in the state. NAN Vanguard Nigeria News Commiserating with families of Nigerians who died during the current outbreak, the NMA said two Nigerian doctors have lost their lives in Kano. Lassa fever, an acute viral hemorrhagic fever, has continued to rage like bush fire, spreading into many communities across the country. According to the Nigerian Centre… February 2, 2020 In "Health" By Charly Agwam - Bauchi The Bauchi State Primary Health Care Development Agency, Friday confirmed three new cases of Lassa fever in the state. Speaking with journalists in Bauchi about the development, Executive Secretary of the Agency, Dr Rilwanu Mohammed disclosed that there has not been any record of death… January 24, 2020 In "Health" Statistics show that about 300,000 people across West Africa are affected and about 5,000 lose their lives annually due to the deadly disease caused by multimammate rats. March 10, 2019 In "Health"