The Edo State Government has announced the discharge of the seventh coronavirus (COVID-19) patient, who has tested negative twice for the virus and cleared from one of the state’s isolation centres. The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, who disclosed this in a statement, said the seventh discharged patient is the index case in the state, noting that with the development, Edo has now recorded 50 per cent recovery rate for admitted patients being managed in facilities across the state. He said, “Good people of Edo, another COVID-19 patient, who is the index case in Edo State, has tested negative for the second time consecutively. He has now been discharged to reunite with his family. “This brings to seven the number of patients successfully managed and discharged from our isolation facilities. We have now recorded 50 per cent recovery rate for patients being managed in our facilities.” Meanwhile, the Commissioner for Health, Dr Patrick Okundia, in a chat with journalists, urged residents to support the government’s efforts at containing the virus by making themselves available for the ongoing massive screening across the state, noting that prompt detection was germane in the fight against the spread of the infectious disease. He said, “Screening facilities (questionnaire-based) have been set up in six Primary Health Care (PHC) centres and four private health facilities in Oredo Local Government Area (LGA), scale-up across the 18 LGAs of Edo State is being worked out. The Government encourages everyone with symptoms of the disease to come out for screening, testing and treatment as early detection complements efforts at containing the virus and increases the chances of survival. “All citizens of Edo State are hereby encouraged to abide strictly with government’s directives on social distancing, use of facemask in public, regular handwashing with soap under running water or using alcohol-based sanitisers, cough etiquette and compliance with the stay-at-home order.” “Two toll-free lines for COVID-19 response have been introduced by Edo State Government to strengthen the initial lines from the State Ministry of Health and the World Health Organisation (WHO) distributed at the beginning of the outbreak. If you have any COVID-19 symptoms, please call 08001235111 or 08002200110 for assistance,” Okundia added. Vanguard By Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City As the dusk to dawn curfew declared by Governor Godwin Obaseki began on Monday, the state government announced the discharge of the seventh coronavirus (COVID-19) patient, who has tested negative twice for the virus and cleared from one of the state's isolation centres. Obaseki,… April 20, 2020 In "News" …urges residents on screening, compliance to directives The Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, has said the state is making steady progress in the management of coronavirus (COVID-19), noting that the remaining eight active cases of COVID-19 are being managed at different isolations centres across the state and… April 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" As govt urges strict compliance to directives The Edo State Government has announced the discharge of five of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) patients in the state, after they tested negative twice for the virus, following their treatment at the state’s isolation centres. Governor Godwin Obaseki, in a statement, said: “I am… April 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"