The Edo State Government has commenced fumigation and decontamination of homes and offices of confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) across six Local Government Areas of the state. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, who disclosed this in a chat with journalists in Benin City, said the move is part of measures by the government to prevent further spread of the infectious disease. According to him, the decontamination exercise will take place in the homes and offices of the 17 confirmed cases recorded in Oredo, Esan West, Egor, Ovia North East, Ikpoba-Okha, and Uhunmwode LGAs. The commissioner noted that while the state has recorded two deaths, seven of the confirmed cases have tested negative twice to the virus and have been discharged, while the eight active cases are being managed at various isolation centres in the state and are responding well to treatment. Okundia, however, urged Edo residents to make themselves available for screening, which is currently ongoing in various centres across the state, adding that the screening exercise will help government ascertain the pattern of spread in order to enhance strategies at containing the virus. Vanguard As govt urges strict compliance to directives The Edo State Government has announced the discharge of five of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) patients in the state, after they tested negative twice for the virus, following their treatment at the state’s isolation centres. Governor Godwin Obaseki, in a statement, said: “I am… April 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr Patrick Okundia, has disclosed that the state has recorded two new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) and one death, reassuring that the state government has intensified measures to prevent further spread of the virus. Okundia, who spoke to journalists in Benin City, said Edo… April 22, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" ...first patient arrives Stella Obasanjo isolation centre By Ozioruva Aliu BENIN CITY - THE Edo State Government has urged employers of labour in the state not to lay off staff, but rather explore human-faced measures to support workers who are at home due to the restrictions imposed to halt the… April 14, 2020 In "News"