Following the allegations of assault, battery and other serious crimes levelled against the Commissioner of Water Resources, Abdulmumini Danga, the Kogi State Government has said it would uphold the path of justice over the matter. This was disclosed, in a statement signed by the Commissioner for Information and Communication, Kingsley Fanwo in Lokoja recently. The statement reads apart; “The attention of the Kogi State Government has been drawn to the allegations of assault, battery and other serious crimes levelled against the above-named individual who is a serving Commissioner in Kogi State. It is alleged that he is involved in the alleged abduction and assault of a woman which allegedly occurred in Lokoja recently. “His Excellency, Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State is an avowed advocate of the fundamental rights of Nigerian citizens, and especially within the boundaries of our dear State. “Accordingly, the Governor has ordered an accelerated investigation into the matter and hereby assures both accusers and accused, as well as the general public, that the whole truth will be uncovered and justice served as appropriate. “The Kogi State Government reaffirms its unalloyed commitment to the protection of everyone from all forms of oppression, and will not stand for violence against women or children under any form or guise. We give our word that everyone found culpable in this incident will be brought to book. ‘We urge our people to continue observing the protocols of prevention and safety relating to the CoviD-19 outbreak and reiterate our commitment to keeping our state free of the disease.” Vanguard Kogi State  Police Command, yesterday, declared wanted, Senator Dino Melaye, senator representing Kogi West and Mohammed Audu, son of the late governor of the state, Abubakar Audu. March 29, 2018 In "News" Kogi State House of Assembly, yesterday, initiated moves to impeach the state's Deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba. August 8, 2019 In "News" SENATOR Dino Melaye, who was arrested Tuesday morning by operatives of the Nigeria Police drawn from its Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, has been reported to have jumped out of the moving vehicle while he was being taken to Lojoja. April 24, 2018 In "News"