Crime rate has dropped drastically in most parts of Lagos, following the lockdown, as pickpockets have been rendered useless because their prey has been forced to remain indoors. Workers and traders who usually left their abodes before 5am, are also heaving sighs of relief, from the incessant attacks by robbers who operate on motorcycles. Traffic robbers, Catch-in-the-air robbery gangs and robbers who attack customers coming from banks also have their own share of regrets, following the forced break-in operation, owing to the lockdown in Lagos, especially. Also, information revealed that the rate of shop breaking at the Idumota and Balogun markets have dropped , apparently due to the restriction of both human and vehicular movement which deprive burglars of having any means to transport stolen goods . In addition, cult clashes and killings seem to have been put on hold this period. This is because everyone, with the exception of those on essential duty, have been compelled to stay at home, including criminal elements. More importantly, the attendant gridlock in Lagos has completely disappeared, thereby making driving pleasurable. A journey that usually took one, over one hour to get to one’s destination, owing to the traffic situation, now takes less than 15 minutes. But for the resultant consequences of the long stay at home, one would have wished that Lagos roads remain the way it is. Vanguard News Nigeria. ...Commercial sex workers, criminals affected ...Fraud and cybercrime expected to rise ...IGP places CP INTERPOL on red alert, alerts Nigerians to be vigilant By Evelyn Usman The predicament bedeviling the world at the moment is the Coronavirus, which has claimed thousands of lives , with many victims still battling between… April 2, 2020 In "Features" The mission of three suspected members of the Black-Axe Confraternity to retaliate the death of one of their members whom they claimed was killed by a rivalry cult group during a clash at Alaba International Market recently, was rendered unaccomplished following their arrest. January 12, 2013 In "Crime Guard" Life has seemingly become hell for residents of Ijaiye Community in Ifako-Ijaye Local Government Area of Lagos following incessant attacks by men of the underworld. Business activities have also grounded to a halt in the area as a result of the activities of these criminals who terrorize and rob them. June 20, 2015 In "Crime Guard"