Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State has imposed a dusk to dawn curfew in the State in a fresh move to check the ravaging coronavirus (COVID-19). He did on Friday in an Executive Order No 001, 2020, saying the State is now on total lockdown because of COVID-19. According to the Governor, the curfew starts from 6 am till 6 pm effective Saturday, April 18 “till further notice”. Governor Uzodimma said he has an obligation to preserve the lives of Imo people and was committed to the enforcement of the total lockdown of movement of persons. Consequently, all borders leading in and out of the state are shut till further notice. Also, Imo indigenes returning from outside the state shall be made admitted on the condition proper identification and on condition that they subject themselves to test of the COVID-19 and are quarantined for 14 days before entering into the state. Violators of the order would be made to undergo a seven day Community Service and a fine in lieu that would require Tricycle operators to pay N7000, motorcycle operators N7000, Border closure violators N10000, Cars N20000 and Trucks N50000. Governor Uzodimma advised Imo people to take the Executive Order seriously as security operators are prepared to enforce it. Recall that recently during one of his statewide broadcast Governor Uzodimma promised to relax the directives in COVID-19 or tighten them if occasion demands. Vanguard Coronavirus crisis in Nigeria escalated yesterday as the number of cases hit 89. The figure of infections was 81 as of Friday night March 29, 2020 In "Health" By Chinonso Alozie The Imo state governor, Hope Uzodinma, on Thursday asked residents in Imo state, to use Friday and move into their markets, buy their food items ahead of the Easter celebration. The governor in Owerri, spoke through his Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, adding that non-food… April 9, 2020 In "News" The Rivers Government has imposed a 24-hour curfew in identified key areas of the state with high human traffic. This is contained in a statement issued in Port Harcourt on Tuesday by Mr Soibi Max-Alalibo, Special Assistant on Media to the Rivers Commissioner for Information and Communications, Mr Paulinus Nsirim.… March 31, 2020 In "News"