The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, has declared Friday as the first day of the Ramadan fast in Nigeria. Abubakar, who announced the sighting of the new crescent in Sokoto on Thursday in a radio and television broadcast, said the new moon was sighted in different parts of the country and that report of the moon sighting was received from Muslim leaders and organisations across the country. He said: “After due verification and authentication by the national moon sighting committee and states committees’ confirmation, as well as routine scrutiny, I hereby announce the sighting of the new moon of Ramadan signifies the end of Sha’aban 1441 AH. ”In accordance with Islamic law, Muslim Ummah are to commence fasting on Friday accordingly.” He enjoined Muslim faithful to devote themselves fully to the worship of Allah throughout the holy month and urged them to use the period to pray for the progress, peace, and prosperity of the nation. “We further call on Nigerians to continue to live peacefully with one another irrespective of religious and tribal difference,” he said. He urged the Muslim faithful to use the period to pray against the coronavirus. The Sultan also urged wealthy individuals to assist the poor and stressed the need for increased religious tolerance and brotherhood in Nigeria. Ramadan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar in which Muslim faithful observe one month fast. (NAN)  Vanguard  he Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, has declared Friday June 15, 2018 as the day to mark the Eid-el-Fitr, and the end of Ramadan fast. June 15, 2018 In "News" By Ishola Balogun The crescent moon heralding the Islamic month of Ramadan has been sighted in several states. The Sultan of Sokoto and President-General, Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), His Eminence, Alhaji Sa'ad Abubakar, made the announcement Thursday. The Sultan said the crescent was sighted by Muslims of… April 23, 2020 In "News" The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar 111, has urged Muslim community in the country to be in the look out for the new moon for the month of Ramadan on May 26. May 25, 2017 In "News"