The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, on Tuesday, announced the sixth COVID-19 death in Lagos, as the total confirmed cases in the state hit 192. Abayomi, through his verified Twitter account, said that the deceased was a 56-year-old Nigerian man, who recently returned from the U.S. He said that the deceased died of COVID-19 related complications, bringing the total number of COVID-19 related deaths in Lagos to six. The commissioner urged residents to remain alert across the communities and obey instructions aimed at containing the spread of COVID-19 infection. He advised residents to call the state Ministry of Health’s emergency number 08000CORONA for any COVID-19 related issues. Vanguard reports that Lagos has 192 confirmed cases; while 70 had recovered and been discharged. Two of the patients had been evacuated from the country, while three were transferred to Ogun, their state of residence. Vanguard Nigeria News By Chioma Obinna The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi Tuesday announced the death of a 56-year-old Nigerian returnee following complications from COVID-19 in the state. The death of the patient brings the number of COVID-19-related deaths in Lagos to six. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Akeredolu imposes curfew, as Ondo… April 14, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By David Royal Nigeria has recorded another fatality from coronavirus in Lagos state. The deceased is said to be a 66-year-old citizen of the United Kingdom who travelled from India via Dubai to Lagos on 17th of March, 2020. The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, disclosed this… April 8, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By David Royal Lagos state has recorded one more death from COVID-19. According to the state's Health Commissioner, Prof Akin Abayomi, the patient died of COVID-19 complications in a private hospital in Lagos. Abayomi revealed this via his verified Twitter handle on Saturday morning while giving an update on coronavirus… April 11, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"