EDO State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, expressed disappointment to the response of the state government towards containing the spread of the ravaging coronavirus, saying the response so far was “a knee jerk.” But reacting, the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Paul Ohonbamu denied the allegations saying the government of Godwin Obaski was prompt in its reaction and doing everything possible to contain the spread of the disease. Addressing newsmen at the party’s secretariat, state chairman of the party, Dr Tony Aziegbemi said the pandemic was spreading at a dangerous speed that needed the government to react in tackling the issue which he said would be for the benefit of the people but lamented that the state government was under-reacting. For instance, he queried the decision of the state government to transfer food markets to public schools without fumigating the schools and providing places of convenience for the traders and buyers. He said, “As a key stakeholder in the existence, survival and future of our dear state, the PDP after due monitoring of the state government’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic can quite described it as knee jerk. “This is very scary judging from the proximity of Edo State to worst affected communities, states in Nigeria, including Lagos, Abuja and foreign countries. In these circumstances, the state government should understand that it is better to over react than under react.” Vanguard Coronavirus crisis in Nigeria escalated yesterday as the number of cases hit 89. The figure of infections was 81 as of Friday night March 29, 2020 In "Health" ABUJA—The Senate, House of Representatives and the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, yesterday, asked the Federal Government to  shut all borders and urgently consider banning non-Nigerian travellers from countries with high risk of Coronavirus (COVID-19). March 18, 2020 In "News" BY GABRIEL ENOGHOLASE EDO State Government has said there was no case of coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state, assuring that all suspected cases of the virus, whose samples were sent for analysis at the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital in the state, tested negative. Special Adviser to the Governor on Media… March 9, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"