French Ligue 1 club Reims were on Sunday in mourning for long-serving club doctor Bernard Gonzalez who committed suicide after being diagnosed with coronavirus, sources confirmed. “Devastated, Reims cries for Bernard Gonzalez,” said a statement released by the Ligue 1 club. “Not just the club but also hundreds of men and women in Reims.” Contacted by AFP, Reims mayor Arnaud Robinet said he had been made aware of the suicide of the 60-year-old, who had worked at the club for over 20 years, by the local prefecture. “I was told Doctor Gonzalez had left a note in which he mentioned that he had tested positive for COVID-19.” A medical source also confirmed to AFP the existence of this letter but added that the doctor had appeared “to be in good shape two days ago”. “I am shocked by his death because he was someone I had known for many years,” said Robinet. Médecin. Artiste. Stadiste.
Docteur Gonzalez.
 pic.twitter.com/Wlw6Bbr7gc — Stade de Reims (@StadeDeReims) April 5, 2020 “No only was he the club doctor, but he was also the GP of many people in Reims. He was known for his human and professional qualities. “He will be missed by the football family and all those in Reims who met him.” Reims club president Jean-Pierre Caillot said he was “stunned” by the news. “This pandemic has struck Reims in the heart. A great personality and great professional of the sport has left us,” said Caillot. More than 8,000 people have died from the coronavirus in France. VANGUARD Former Marseille president Pape Diouf has died aged 68 after contracting the new coronavirus, a family source told AFP on Tuesday. Diouf, who was born in Chad but had French and Senegalese citizenship, led the club between 2005-2009 and helped build the side who lifted the Ligue 1 title in 2010. He… April 1, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Champions Paris Saint-Germain are clear favourites to lift the French title for a seventh time in eight seasons after their nearest rivals Lille and Lyon sold key players over the summer. August 6, 2019 In "News" Marseille have signed Argentina forward Dario Benedetto from Boca Juniors on a four-year deal, the Ligue 1 outfit announced on Monday. August 5, 2019 In "News"