The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, and Director-General, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, on Sunday, updated President Muhammadu Buhari on the latest development on COVID-19 and the reported mysterious deaths in Kano. Ehanire, who spoke to State House correspondents on the outcome of the closed-door meeting held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, said the duo briefed the President on the activities and overall positions of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19. The briefing of the President took place barely 24 hours to the expiration of the government’s lockdown in Lagos, Abuja, and Ogun States. The President had on April 13 announced a 14-day extension of a lockdown in Lagos, Abuja, and Ogun States in a bid to check the spread of the virus. The minister said the PTF presented to the President its advice and recommendations on way forward in the ongoing fight against the spread of the deadly virus in the country. He said: “We also brought the overall summary apposition of the Presidential Task Force which as you know comprises of not only the health ministry but other ministries. “We have aggregated the opinions that we have, weighing the health and the socio-economic factors and everything, to present our own opinion and recommendations to Mr. President.” Ehanire believed that the nation was winning the fight against the pandemic as all relevant health institutions had agreed to work together to achieve the desired goal of defeating the coronavirus. He added: The fight is going on very well. As I said, all countries have continued with the struggle against Coronavirus, using the strategies that they have developed for their own countries. “We have developed a strong strategy as we are working with other experts groups like the NCDC and relevant health organisations. “So, we are also working with the states and the governors.’’ The minister, who also spoke on the reported mysterious deaths in Kano, said his ministry had been communicating with relevant agencies including Kano State Government with a view to addressing the problem. Ihekweazu, who also spoke to the correspondents, advised Nigerians against wasting their meagre resources on the procurement of what he described as uncertified Rapid Diagnostic Test Kits. He said: “We will continue to build up our testing strategies. At the moment 14 testing centres have been activated across the country. “We want to bring the test closer to every state. Everybody is working very hard to solve this problem. “I can see that some people are already procuring Rapid Diagnostic Test Kits. They don’t work as far as we know. “So, I will really recommend that we all stick to the National Strategy, build on it, support its expansion, and together we will get on top of the pandemic.’’ (NAN)  Vanguard ---President to address nation again as extended lockdown expires By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA --- AS the second phase of the lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Abuja for 14 days expires Monday, President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday met with the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire… April 26, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has appealed to Nigerians to adhere to proven guidelines on the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic to curb its spread in the country. Dr Osagie Ehanire, the Minister of Health, made the call on Monday in Abuja at the Presidential Task Force (PTF) daily briefing on COVID-19. Ehanire… April 13, 2020 In "News" By Agbonkhese Oboh & Chioma Obinna The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has said only President Muhammadu Buhari can take a decision on the extension of the lockdown in Lagos and Ogun states, including Abuja. The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 gave an update on the outbreak of coronavirus in… April 7, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"