South Africa’s president, Cyril Ramaphosa, who is also the current head of the African Union (AU), has defended the World Health Organization (WHO) following President Trump’s criticism of the WHO’s handling of coronavirus. In a statement released on Wednesday night, President Ramaphosa reaffirmed the AU’s support for the WHO Chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and called for international co-operation in fighting the virus. “As the world grapples with the challenge of the coronavirus there is a need for solidarity, unity of purpose and better coordination to ensure that we are able to overcome this common enemy,” the statement read. Mr Ramaphosa went on to say that the AU extends its unwavering support to the WHO, and added that “we should avoid the temptation to apportion blame”. President Ramaphosa’s support of Dr Tedros and the WHO comes after US President Donald Trump’s criticism of the organisation. In a briefing on Tuesday, Mr Trump – who’s been accused of acting too slowly against the virus – accused the WHO of providing bad advice when the outbreak started. He also said the organisation was “China-centric” and threatened to cut down funding. The WHO’s $2.5bn (£2bn) annual budget comes from member nations, as well as non-profit organisations, foundations, companies and universities. Contrary to Mr Trump’s comments, the US does not provide the majority of the funding for the WHO, but it is the largest single contributor. vanguard South African President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday prolonged by a further 14 days a national lockdown aimed at stemming coronavirus, saying the struggle was "far from over" as infections rose to 1,934. "After careful consideration of the available evidence, the national coronavirus command council has decided to extend the nationwide… April 10, 2020 In "News" South African President, Cyril Ramaphosa on Friday said in spite some challenges, Africa has made significant strides in addressing economic, social and political challenges facing the continent. May 25, 2018 In "News" A South African billionaire businessman and the first black African on the Forbes billionaires list, Patrice Motsepe has apologized for telling United States President, Donald Trump that “Africa loves you” during the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos last week. A video of Patrice Motsepe’s remarks to Trump went viral… January 29, 2020 In "Foreign"