Former Governor of Abia State and Senator representing Abia Central, Senator T.A. Orji, has disowned misleading campaign posters adorning the streets of Aba and Umuahia in Abia State indicating that he nurses a presidential ambition come 2023. In a statement signed by his chief liaison officer, Mr Ifeanyi Umere, and released to newsmen on Monday, Senator T.A. Orji, reemphasized his earlier stance that he has no political ambition after his current tenure as senator expires in 2023, describing those behind the posters as people “who are not happy with his towering status in national politics”. The statement in full reads: “Our attention has been drawn to some posters adorning some streets in Umuahia and Aba purporting that Senator T.A. Orji is running for President come 2023. READ ALSO: Indefinite lockdown? What Buhari said about lockdown extension “This is to let the public know that Senator T.A. Orji is not running for any political position in 2023 as he has last year declared that he is quitting politics in 2023. “Those behind this act are those who are not happy with the towering status of the former Abia State Governor in national politics. “Senator TA Orji is using this opportunity to assure his constituents that he will not be distracted by this latest antics of these political merchants of falsehood, as he will remain focused in delivering the dividends of democracy to the people.” VANGUARD When on November 9, 1950, Senator Theodore Ahamefule Orji CON was born in the then rustic community of Amaokwe Ugba in the present Umuahia North Local Government Area of Abia State, little did the world know that, just like the humble Nazareth, his place of origin has produced a giant… November 9, 2018 In "Viewpoint" For sometimes now, the family of Senator T. A. Orji has come under a barrage of malicious machinations and attacks ostensibly orchestrated by over-ambitious opposition politicians in Abia who are afraid of the continued towering popularity of the former Governor among Abians, and think that the only way they can… March 23, 2020 In "News" There is palpable fear in Abia state and that fear is justified, given the activities of some politicians bent on not only foisting their authorities like a colossus on the people but also controlling the entire political structures of the state. Their intention is to pocket the whole of Abia… May 25, 2019 In "News"