The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has hailed the roles played by health workers in the frontline fighting to contain the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state. The governor gave the commendation in commemoration of the World Health Day, celebrated every April 7, to mark the founding of the World Health Organisation (WHO). According to Obaseki, “As we mark the World Health Day, especially at a time the world is confronted with the COVID-19 pandemic, we commend the roles played by health workers in Edo State who are in the frontline in our response at curbing the spread of the virus. “I salute the courage of the health workers working round-the-clock in providing quality treatment and care, leading community dialogue on precautionary measures and hygienic practices against the spread of the virus among members of the public.” Obaseki said his administration will continue to prioritise the welfare and wellbeing of health workers in the state, noting, “We are training over 6,000 medical personnel drawn from the private, state and federal medical centres in the state on how to manage infectious diseases in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. This is to ensure that health workers in our hospitals are well prepared for eventualities from the outbreak of COVID-19.” “We are also ensuring that health workers are incentivized and provided with the basic tools to enable them do their job better in curbing the spread of COVID-19, as we have made provision for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and other equipment to curb the spread of COVID-19,” he added. According to the WHO, “Without nurses, there would be no response to COVID-19 pandemic. April 7, 2020, is the day to celebrate the work of nurses and midwives and remind world leaders of the critical role they play in keeping the world healthy. Nurses and other health workers are at the forefront of COVID-19 response.” Vanguard Develops economic stimulus package for vulnerable persons The Edo State Government has ordered the evacuation of patients from the Stella Obasanjo Hospital, converting the facility into a full-blown holding and isolation centre to manage different stages of cases of coronavirus (COVID-19). The Deputy Governor of Edo State and Chairman, Technical… March 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki has called on youths, governments, healthcare workers and researchers not to relent on the campaign to rid the world of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). December 1, 2017 In "News" A non-governmental group, Association for Monitoring and Implementation of Covid-19 in Edo state has accused Edo state government of engaging in deliberate campaign of dishonesty in its handling of COVID19 in the state adding that the head of the government, Mr. Godwin Obaseki has now exceeded the recommended 14 days… April 3, 2020 In "News"