Abakaliki – Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, Wednesday banned the Correspondents of The Sun newspaper, Chijioke Agwu, and the Vanguard Newspaper, Peter Okutu, from entering Government house and Government facilities in the State for life. Umahi who made the statement in a statewide live broadcast aired in the State’s Television and Radio stations, said he was displeased with the leadership of Nigeria Union of Journalists, for failing to discipline their members. Umahi had last week Saturday ordered the arrest of The Sun Correspondent, Chijioke Agwu, over a report he did on the Lassa Fever outbreak in the state who was later released. Three days later, Mr. Peter Okutu, was arrested on the orders of Ohaukwu LGA Chairman, Mr. Clement Odah, over a report he did on the alleged military invasion of Umuogodoakpu-Ngbo community in the council area. He has also been released. Governor Umahi who said the safety of Journalists in the State could no longer be guaranteed by him, noted that the people were angry with the Journalists and might began to unleash mayhem on them, if they continue to cause panic in the state. According to him, if you think you have the pen, we have the koboko. His words: “I want to say that I am very displeased with the president and leadership of the Nigeria Union of Journalists and I am going to seize their allowances for two months, because they have failed to discipline their members. “Ebonyi State is no longer a dumping ground. Only the other day, Chijioke Agwu (referring to The Sun Correspondent) wrote that Lassa Fever is killing Ebonyi people in droves and few days back, Mr Peter Okutu of Vanguard did his own. Okutu is fond of degrading Ebonyi State, and I don’t know why my officials have allowed him to continue to do that, because he is not from Ebonyi State. I want to ban him for life with Chijioke Agwu. I don’t want to see them anywhere in any Government facility. “We are not begging you to give us good report, because the only person that gives good or bad report is God. We are all accountable to him. If you think that Ebonyi State is a dumping ground, try it again. “If you think you have the pen, we have the koboko. Let’s leave the Court alone.Ebonyi people are very angry with the press and let me warn that I won’t be able to control them or know when they unleash mayhem on you, if you continue to write to create panic in the State. “I want you to write it that way, that I said, press in Ebonyi is trying to create another COVID that is more dangerous and that is to create panic in our people. “The other one wrote that cholera has killed 20 people in Ohaukwu. If you try it again, I may not know when Ebonyians may react. This is important for the NUJ to know. If you are an Ebonyi man or live in Ebonyi and you don’t feel our pains, it is a shame on you. May be, the press people claim they are untouchable. I have reported to the National President of NUJ, I have reported to State leadership of NUJ and I have reported to the public. Now, the dye is cast. May God save us, in the course of time” Vanguard Nigeria News The Police in Ebonyi State have arrested Vanguard Correspondent, Mr. Peter Okutu, on the orders of a local government chairman. The arrest was over a report Okutu did about military invasion of Umuogodoakpu-Ngbo in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the state. Okutu was arrested by armed men of the State… April 21, 2020 In "News" *How I was deceived — Okutu *IPU, Ubani, others react By Henry Ojelu & Peter Okutu Police in Ebonyi State, on Tuesday, arrested and later released the Vanguard Correspondent, Mr. Peter Okutu, over a report he did about military invasion of Umuogodoakpu-Ngbo in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the state.… April 22, 2020 In "News" By Dennis Agbo Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi state, on Saturday, ordered the police to detain indefinitely THE SUN Correspondent in the state, Mr Chijioke Agwu, after the Governor reportedly arrested and detained him in the state Government House. Vanguard gathered that Agwu's travail is connected to a Lassa Fever… April 18, 2020 In "Health"