A Pharmacist, Mr Abiodun Ajibade,  has advised Nigerians to engage in regular exercise and walking during the Covid-19 lockdown to prevent blood stasis resulting in thrombosis. Ajibade, Chairman, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Oyo State Chapter, gave the advice in a telephone interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Tuesday. He said that there was the need for a deeper concern on the health risk to individuals locked down by the Federal Government’s directive to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the country. Ajibade described thrombosis as a local coagulation or blood clotting in a part of the human circulatory system. According to him, injury to a vein, surgery, certain medications and limited movement are some of the issues that can prevent blood from circulating or clotting normally, thereby causing blood clots of Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT). “In the last three weeks or more, Nigerians have been subjected to restriction of movement and forced to stay-at-home in a bid to curb the spread of coronavirus in the country. “How good this restriction order, is also a big concern of the health risk to class of individuals, who by virtue of reduced activities may be coming down with thrombosis. “As a result of limited movement, many people may soon be coming down with signs and challenges of thrombosis, which is equally life threatening, ” he said. According to Ajibade, DVT is one major cause of death in patients who have been exposed to the causes of thrombosis and most times, this pass unnoticed. “Many lives have been inadvertently lost to DVT without anyone seeing it coming. “When the thrombi dislodge, they block the small capillaries thereby denying vital organs of blood supply and ultimately leading to death, ” he said. The Pharmacist urged healthcare professionals to be wary of the development and encourage the populace on the need to engage in regular exercise and walking to prevent thrombosis “As we continue to remain locked down at home we must be careful of its secondary effects on our health. “People should not be gulping calories daily without due exercise as this may be the crisis waiting for individuals after this lockdown. “We, therefore, must play safe by practicing social distancing and possibly meal distancing cum exercise to remain strong and well after this passing phase in our nation, ” Ajibade said. Vanguard Sanofi, a multinational pharmaceutical company, has raised concerns about the need to create more awareness for people, especially patients to know their thrombosis risks and demand for thrombosis treatment or action to be taken to prevent the disease (Prophylaxis). According to Ms. Folake Odediran, General Manager, Sanofi Nigeria/Ghana, this is… October 14, 2019 In "Health" To most Nigerians,words like “thrombosis” or “Venous thromboembolist (VTE)” are not everyday words they will like to bother with. It’s not also a health condition anyone will reckon with in this environment. But this is a silent killer, a condition that kills within minutes when it strikes. That was the… October 22, 2019 In "Health" ...Hospital patients, air travellers more at risk By Chioma Obinna To most Nigerians, words like “thrombosis” or “Venous thromboembolism (VTE)” are not everyday words they will like to bother with. It’s not also a health condition anyone will reckon within this environment. But this is a silent killer, a condition… October 22, 2019 In "Health"