Air Peace airline on Saturday night delivered the federal government first batch of medical supplies from Turkey in the fight against the spread of Corona virus pandemic and for the treatment of those who are infected. The Air Peace aircraft, Boeing 777 with registration number, 5N-BWI landed at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja from Istanbul, Turkey on Saturday night. The Chief Operating Officer of Air Peace, Mrs. Toyin Olajide who disclosed the delivery said that the flight left Nigeria early Saturday for the seven hours flight to Turkey and was able to lift the supplies and returned to Nigeria before midnight. She also said that this was the first batch of the medical supplies from the federal government, noting that the airline would leave for China today (Monday) for another batch of medical supplies from the federal government. “Air Peace will also deliver another supplies for the federal government. It will leave for Beijing on Monday for 15 hours non-stop flight to China with its B777-ER with registration number 5N-BE,” Olajide said. The COO on behalf of the airline gave kudos to the federal government for its efforts to rid the country of the corona virus disease , noting that the Nigerian government is way ahead of some countries in the fight against the virus, which is devastating mankind. “The management of Air Peace commends the federal government for being proactive in the preparation for emergencies, preventing the spread of the virus and also providing the kits and other medical equipment for the treatment of those infected by the pandemic. This shows that government is ready to fight this disease and it is even more prepared than the governments of some of the advanced nations in the measures and strategies adopted to eradicate the virus,” Olajide said. VANGUARD By Lawani Mikairu Air Peace has announced the suspension of all its flight services as from Friday, 27th March. In a statement signed by its Chief Operating Officer, Mrs. Toyin Olajide, Air Peace said, “It is with a great sense of responsibility that we have decided, in the best interest… March 25, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" SINCE the outbreak of the dreaded Corona virus, Nigerian airline operators have frequently been in the news bordering how their operation could be regulated to curtail the spread while also allowing them to remain in business. March 27, 2020 In "News" Air Peace airline yesterday said its Chief Operating Officer, Mrs Oluwatoyin Olajide, did not grant any recent interview to any media outfit where it berated the government for continuously imposing multiple taxes and charges on the aviation operators  and granting multiple designations to foreign carriers . December 29, 2019 In "News"