Fifty-eight suspected Islamists who were rounded up in a Chadian operation against Boko Haram will be heard by a criminal court from Thursday, Justice Minister Djimet Arabi told AFP. Chad’s President, Idriss Deby Itno, asserted that Boko Haram militants were chased out of the country in the operation carried out between March 31 and April 8. A Chadian army spokesman said at least 52 soldiers and 1,000 jihadists were killed during the operation, which was launched after a massive attack on an army base near Lake Chad that claimed the lives of around 100 soldiers. Idriss warned his allies in the region that Chad’s army would no longer take part in operations outside the country. The force, considered one of the best in the region, has fought Boko Haram in the Lake Chad region as part of the Joint Multinational Force with Nigeria, Cameroon and Niger. Meanwhile, in another news, jihadists killed five Nigerian security personnel in a gunfight outside Maiduguri, the main city in Borno State, security sources said Wednesday. The state is the restive northeast of the country. A joint military and police patrol came under fire Tuesday from fighters aligned to the so-called Islamic State group near Buta village, 20 kilometres (12 miles) from Maiduguri, security personnel told AFP. “We lost two soldiers, two policemen and one militiaman in the attack,” a military officer said on condition of anonymity. The officer said it was an “unexpected encounter as the terrorists were heading somewhere to launch an attack when they bumped into the patrol team”. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Chadian President Idriss Deby Itno has said his country's troops, who have been deployed to fight jihadists in the Lake Chad region and the Sahel, will no longer take part in military operations outside national borders. "Our troops have died for Lake Chad and the Sahel. From today, no Chadian… April 11, 2020 In "Foreign" The Chadian army said Thursday it had wound up an offensive against Boko Haram jihadists in the Lake Chad border region in which 52 troops and 1,000 jihadists were killed. Army spokesman Colonel Azem Bermendoa Agouna told AFP that the operation, launched after nearly 100 soldiers were killed last month, ended Wednesday… April 10, 2020 In "News" Eight Chadian soldiers were killed in fierce fighting with Boko Haram insurgents at the weekend on islands on Lake Chad, the army said Monday. June 26, 2017 In "News"