THE Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and the Nigeria Navy have concluded plans to have a regime of improved information sharing with a view to integrating the Command, Control, Computer Communication and Information Centre, otherwise known as the C4i Centre of the Deep Blue Project  backed by the Navy’s Falcon Eye. Speaking in Lagos during a visit by the  Flag Officer Commanding (FOC) Western Naval Command, Rear Admiral Oladele Bamidele Daji, to NIMASA, Director General of NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, noting the strategic importance of the cooperation stated that both agencies have mandates that are interwoven. Jamoh explained that  since NIMASA is not an arm bearing organization it was important for it to support the Navy with necessary platforms for it to be able to optimally safeguard Nigerian Waters which falls under NIMASA’s functional area. He stated: ‘‘Just like we did by ensuring that our Special Mission Vessels are manned by men of the Nigerian Navy, we are also looking at the possibility of effectively linking the C4i center at kikiriki with the Falcon Eye of the Nigerian Navy. This is to ensure safety of lives and property for safer shipping in the Nigerian maritime domain so that the maritime industry remains virile for economic prosperity” Jamoh also disclosed that the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System, GMDSS, facility at Takwa Bay will become functional very soon and the facility will also enhance intelligence gathering and information sharing with the Nigerian Navy, which has also approved the establishment of a Naval formation at Takwa Bay. Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and the Nigeria Navy have made arrangements to improve information sharing through their respective security platforms to enhance maritime security in the country. April 19, 2020 In "News" THE Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) collaboration with the Nigerian Navy has begun to yield result as relative peace and security has returned to the nation's coastal waters. April 5, 2010 In "Sweet Crude" DESPITE holding-up on the strategic direction and initiatives of the new leadership at the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, the new Director General, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, yesterday, indicated that the Agency under him would pursue the agenda of the Deep Blue Project, ensure the enactment of the anti-piracy… March 11, 2020 In "Business"