At last, the Lagos state government has reviewed upward the hazard allowance of health workers in the state from N5, 000 to N25, 000. A circular signed by the Head of Service in the state, the Hakeem Muri-Okuno revealed that 400 percent upward review and approval by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for the month of April was in appreciation of the health workers and their dedication the fight against the coronavirus disease pandemic as well as their daily exposure to the disease. He said the gesture was an incentive to boost the morale of the health workers as they go about their duties in saving lives. The circular reads:  “In appreciation of the dedication of all Health Officers in Lagos State to the fight against the Coronavirus Pandemic, as well as their daily hazardous exposure to the highly contagious disease, it is hereby notified for general information that Mr. Governor has approved the increment of Hazard Allowance for all Health Officers in Lagos State from N5, 000 (Five Thousand Naira) to N25, 000 (Twenty-Five Thousand Naira) for the month of April 2020.” “The gesture is an incentive to all Health Officers in the State, as Frontline Responders in the fight against the Pandemic. It is believed that the Officers would reciprocate the same with more doggedness and enthusiasm towards duty in all Health facilities State-wide. “Furthermore, I wish to reiterate that our collective efforts will yield the desired result, as this Pandemic shall pass. Accounting Officers are enjoined to note the contents of this Circular and give it the Service-wide publicity it deserves.” vanguard By Chioma Obinna The Nigerian Union of Allied Health Professionals, NUAHP, on Wednesday, demanded life insurance scheme and immediate payment of N100, 000 special COVID-19 allowances to all health workers at the frontline of the war against the disease as presently done to other health workers globally. Making the demand… April 1, 2020 In "Health" ...as 11 more recover, rejoin families By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Government, on Thursday, discharged 11 more patients from the Infectious Disease Hospital, IDH, Yaba, after being tested negative twice for Coronavirus (COVID-19) and have been allowed to return home to their families. The latest figure brings to 18 the… April 2, 2020 In "News" ..Says more patients to be discharged any moment ..Expresses satisfaction with level of compliance on Presidential directive so far By Olasunkanmi Akoni In view of the current trend and successes recorded in the confirmed cases of Coronavirus, COVID-19 pandemic in the state, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has expressed… April 1, 2020 In "News"