Rio de Janeiro Governor, Wilson Witzel, a leading opponent of Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro’s calls to relax COVID-19 containment measures, said Tuesday he had tested positive for the new coronavirus. In a video posted to Twitter, Witzel said he had started feeling unwell Friday, with a fever, sore throat and loss of smell, a key symptom of the virus. “Today, the test result came back positive… Now, thank God, I’m feeling better, and will continue working while following my doctors’ advice,” said Witzel, 52. “I ask you once again to stay at home, because this disease, as everyone can see, spreads quickly and doesn’t spare anyone.” Along with Sao Paulo Governor Joao Doria, Witzel has been one of the leading proponents for closing non-essential businesses and ordering people to stay home to slow the spread of the disease. On Monday he extended Rio de Janeiro’s stay-at-home measures until April 30. Those policies have been attacked by Bolsonaro, who accuses them of needlessly wrecking Latin America’s biggest economy over a disease the far-right president has compared to a “little flu.” Witzel fired back last month that Bolsonaro’s defiance of guidelines from the United Nations and World Health Organization could be considered a “crime against humanity.” Rio de Janeiro state, home to 16 million people, has registered 224 deaths from the virus so far, second only to Sao Paulo. Brazil, the Latin American country hit hardest by the pandemic, has registered more than 1,300 deaths. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The governor of Rio de Janeiro, Luiz Fernando Pezao, was arrested on Thursday over allegations he received bribes as part of the sprawling “Car Wash” graft probe, according to Brazilian media November 29, 2018 In "News" The Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, a former governor of Oyo State, Adebayo Alao-Akala and Senator Abdulfatai Buhari (APC-Oyo North) have wished Governor Seyi Makinde quick recovery as he tested positive to the coronavirus. The trio expressed their sympathy in separate statements issued on Tuesday in… March 31, 2020 In "News" LAGOS — As Nigeria yesterday confirmed two new cases of COVID-19,  bringing the number of confirmed cases to 46, Rivers and Kogi states have shut their borders to stop the spread of the virus in their states. March 26, 2020 In "News"