The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, has expressed disbelief and lamented the current state of Nigeria’s healthcare infrastructure. Mr Boss Mustapha who serves as the chairman of the presidential task force on COVID-19 made this known in a meeting with the leadership of the National Assembly on Thursday. “I can tell you for sure, I never knew that our entire healthcare infrastructure was in the state in which it is. Until I was appointed to do this work,”. Mr Mustapha admitted The SGF said if advanced countries are overwhelmed and struggling to contain the COVID-19 virus, “then Nigeria needs to improve its own”. He added, “My prayer is that Nigeria’s situation does not escalate to that extent because the country lacked what is required to handle the situation.” He also spoke on the need for accountability in managing the health crisis. According to Mr Mustapha, the task force will not be directly involved in the disbursement of cash donations for COVID-19. “The accountant-general of the federation has already published the account details for collection through some commercial banks and also provided the modalities for its utilisation,” he said The SGF also said the COVID-19 pandemic had provided an opportunity to carry out reforms and ensure more funding for the country’s health system. Vanguard THE Federal  Government warned yesterday that coronavirus may spread further in the country. It also said all the resources gathered in the wake of the pandemic would be mobilised for direct development and delivery of critical infrastructure to states by the donors, adding that they would also be used for direct… April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Omeiza Ajayi & Idirisu Yakubu Chairman of the PTF and Secretary to the Government of the Federation SGF, Mr Boss Mustapha has said that Media, including Newspaper Vendors, are exempted from Federal Government's restrictions in Lagos, Abuja and Ogun state. Mustapha reminded security agencies on Tuesday during a media… March 31, 2020 In "News" The leadership of the National Assembly has commended the competence of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) led by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha in containing the COVID-19 pandemic. The President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmed Lawan and the Speaker of the House of Representatives,… April 9, 2020 In "News"