Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, on Monday, said about 160 miscreants have been arrested and would soon be arraigned in court. Sanwo-Olu said this during a media briefing on fight against the COVID-19 in the state at the State House, Marina. Also, Sanwo-Olu disclosed that over one million locally-made facemasks have been contracted out to tailors locally and will be distributed during the week. According to Sanwo-Olu, the state government would continue with “show of force day and night.” He added: “Our people should be able to go to bed with their two eyes closed. In the last one week, the police have arrested at least 160 miscreants and they will soon be arraigned in court.” ALSO READ: BREAKING: 5 patients of COVID-19 discharged in Lagos Sanwo-Olu, however, warned Muslims to adhere strictly to existing directive against large gatherings during Ramadan period, vowing that any violators would be dealt with accordingly. According to him, “as Ramadan period approaches we urge you Muslims to make hygiene and social distancing top priority, as we will be very strict with the rule. “We urge you to pray at home, as God is everywhere. Any large gathering is unacceptable. We expect to see full compliance,” Sanwo-Olu added. Vanguard Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos has said patients who lie about their travel history will be prosecuted. He disclosed this during a press briefing at the State House Marina on Monday. READ ALSO: Lagos to enforce face mask wearing in public places from next week He said “These patients do… April 20, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" IKEJA — Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday ordered a joint security patrol to  deal with miscreants and armed gangs attacking innocent citizens. April 15, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Condemns politically motivated attacks over palliatives By Olasunkanmi Akoni The Conference of Registered Political Parties (SRPP) in Lagos has commended the efforts of the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his reaction to COVID-19, as well as curtailing the spread of the COVID-19, pandemic in the state. The group… April 15, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"