United States President, Donald Trump, announced Thursday that he has taken his second coronavirus test at the White House since the outbreak began and it was again found to be negative. “I just took it this morning,” he told a news conference. “It said the president tested negative for COVID-19.” This was his second test. This time he used a new rapid method that he said took a minute to complete and barely 15 minutes to return a result. “I took it out of curiosity to see how quickly it worked. It is a lot easier. I have done them both. The second one is much more pleasant,” Trump said. The first test, done in mid-March, used a more invasive method, with results coming only hours later Trump, 73, had previously resisted getting tested, as well as arguing initially that coronavirus is no worse than the regular flu and did not require a massive shutdown of the economy. Since then, Trump has declared himself a “wartime president” and is overseeing a massive ramping up of testing capabilities. Trump’s first test was taken after he came into contact with several members of a Brazilian presidential delegation visiting his Florida resort who later tested positive for the virus. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro on Friday announced that he has tested negative for the coronavirus, contradicting earlier reports — including from his son — that he’d tested positive. Posts on his official Facebook and Twitter accounts said that “The Armed Forces Hospital and (diagnostic laboratory) Sabin have returned a negative… March 13, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" U.S. President, Donald Trump, has tested negative for coronavirus (COVID-19), according to his physician, Sean Conley. March 15, 2020 In "News" United States President Donald Trump has tested negative for the novel coronavirus, his physician said, following concerns over his exposure to a disease that has paralyzed the globe. Trump agreed to the test after coming in contact with several members of a Brazilian presidential delegation visiting his Florida resort who… March 15, 2020 In "Foreign"