Penis size matters. Almost 400 women have signed up for a British dating site, which specifically caters to men with large penises, in just one week. The app has the ability to block lying men, who exaggerate their measurements. David Minns, the founder of dating, said: “We have introduced a ‘not big enough’ report button.” He claims that the average member has an eight-inch penis, but claims it to be 11 inches. The latest members of the app include 391 women and 833 men. In Sheffield, it seems that size really does matter as 38% of sign-ups were female. In Coventry, this number hits 36% and in Leeds 34%. London’s women made up just 29% of sign-ups in the area, with 26% in Liverpool and just 19% in Cardiff. Men have to exceed the global average willy size of 5.5 inches to join. ALSO READ: SHOCKER!!! Woman cuts off penis of attempted rapist In November last year, the NHS revealed that the average UK penis was 3.7 inches, when flaccid and 5.1 inches when erect. The figures came following research at University College London, which looked at the lengths of penises of 104 men, including teenagers and pensioners. They also found that some men were “growers” and other “showers”. Research, based on the penis measurements of 2,770 men, found that shorter penises increased by 86% when erect, twice that of longer penises which grew 47%. Founder, David, said: “It seems size really does matter, for some ladies at least.” He added: “During lockdown, we insist members size each other up and only start dating when it’s safe.” Vanguard He was a freshman in secondary school. On this night, the seniors were soaping (applying soap to their penises to get an erection and measure the length). Unless they were lying or his memory is failing him (it happened almost 40 years ago), he heard 10 inches, 11 inches, then… June 19, 2015 In "Marriage and Family" Even if you’re not a literal one-minute man, there’s nothing wrong with seeking to improve your sex life. Sex is great, but great sex is awesome.Interested in lasting longer and going more rounds with the lady in your life? Add these foods to your diet and you just might turn yourself into “the one” your… March 16, 2017 In "News" Previous studies on women's preferences for male genital size have been mixed, and even though it is the men who typically worry about the size of their own genitals, it is not unusual for women to prefer large-size male genitalia, even if it is up to a point. April 17, 2013 In "Health"