The decision to not award the Dutch league title to Ajax Amsterdam was understandable, said the club’s general manager Edwin van der Sar as the season in the Netherlands was formally brought to a premature close by the COVID-19 pandemic. Ajax were top of the standings with nine matches left to play when the season was suspended last month.” But the former European champions will not be awarded the title, the Dutch football association (KNVB) decided after hopes for a resumption of the season ended earlier this week when the government extended a ban on public events until Sept. 1. It is the first time since 1945 that there will be no Dutch champion. “As players and coaches, you want to win the title on the field,” said Van der Sar, the former Dutch national team and Manchester United goalkeeper. “We have been top of the table throughout the season, so it is a pity we haven’t been able to become champion but given the situation we are in, it is understandable. “There are a lot more important matters than football right now,” he told the club’s television channel. Ajax will, however, compete in the Champions League next season, taking up one of the two places for the Dutch in the competition. AZ Alkmaar, who had caught up to Ajax in the weeks before the suspension of the league and were only behind them on goal difference, will start in the preliminary rounds. Vanguard Ajax coach and former Dutch international Frank de Boer announced on Thursday he was quitting the Amsterdam club after failing to win the Dutch title. May 12, 2016 In "Sports" No matter the outcome of the Europa League final tonight against Manchester United, 24 May will always have a special sentiment for Ajax and its fans. May 23, 2017 In "Sports" Former Ajax and Machester United goalkeeper, Edwin van der Sar has admitted his interest in taking up the role of Machester United's director of football. Luis Campos, a close pal of the side's former manager, Jose Mourinho has hinted some days ago the club desperately needs a sporting director to… October 14, 2019 In "News"