The Pankwal Bogghom, Traditional Chief of the Bogghom people in Kanam local government area of Plateau State, HRH Shehu Usman has been abducted from his palace in Kanam. The Traditional ruler was forcefully taken by armed men in the early hours of Monday. While no member of his immediate family was injured, a staff in the palace was said to have been badly injured by the intruders. The Executive Chairman of Kanam Local Government Council, Wokdung Abbas who confirmed the incident to Vanguard on phone said he got a distress call in the night about the incident and was heading to the palace this morning to see things for himself and get the full details of what transpired. He said, “I received a distress call by 1am that some men of the underworld attacked the palace of Pankwal, got into his house, abducted and whisked him away to an unknown destination. The security has been briefed, the Governor has been briefed and the State apparatus is on the matter. No member of his family was hurt but someone was injured when the men were on their way out. I’m on my way to the house, once I’m done, I’ll get back to you.” The Chairman called for security to be beefed up in the Local government and appealed to residents to remain calm as efforts are being made to rescue the abducted monarch and prayed for his safety. The royal father is in his 80s and had been on the stool of his forebears for over five decades. Vanguard Unknown gunmen, at midnight, attacked Gyangyang village in Jhar Chiefdom of Kanam Local Government area of Plateau state, killing the acting village head, Alhaji Mohammed Suleiman. September 29, 2017 In "News" The Second Class Chief in Shendam local government area of Plateau State, the Long Dorok, HRH David Dongbam has been kidnapped, the State Police Command confirmed. November 20, 2018 In "News" UKHIRI—CONTROVER-SY  has erupted  over the role  police officers played, last Monday, when over 100 armed youths from a neighbouring community invaded and attacked HRH Godwin Aigbe, the Enogie (Duke) of Ukhiri community, Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area, Edo State,  at his palace,  with policemen allegedly refusing to confront the attackers. December 24, 2019 In "News"