A pro government group known as Committee of Youth on Mobilization and Sensitization, CYMS, has faulted the processes of distribution of palliatives aimed to cushion the Federal Government’s lockdown order on the people, saying that over 80 percent of the affected Nigerians are yet to feel the impact of the largesse. The total lockdown ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari in order to curb the spread of the deadly coronavirus, COVID-19, is still in force In Lagos, Ogun States and the Federal Capital Territory , FCT, with the residence reeling in pain over the effects of the order. The Youth group, while reviewing the step taken so far in the distribution of the funds, urged Federal Government to be fair in the distribution of palliatives to the affected populations. The  CYMS’s Intelligent Officer Manuchimso Sam Amadi while addressing newsmen Friday  in Abuja said for the lockdown to be effective Government must brace up to the occasion and provide more and better  palliatives to cushion the impacts of the lockdown. According to him, over 80 per cent of Nigerians are yet to feel the impact, following the CYMS intelligent gathering report conducted by the Security Department of the organisation “We call on the Federal and State governments to engage better. They must design better palliatives that take into cognisance the structure of our society. The private sectors should also be fully involved”. He however advised the security agencies to be Professional in the enforcement of the lockdown order while  condemning any form of harassment that might have been meted on the media personnel, health and social workers working to defeat the Covid-19 in the country. Amadi said that the fight against Covid-19 virus is a corporate responsibility of everyone and hence must be carried out with high level of civility, and commended the efforts of the Federal, State Governments,  private firms and Non- governmental organisations for their  prompt intervention and humanitarian services in line with the  COVID-19 programme. “CYMS is appealing to the Presidential Taskforce on Covid-19 to ensure that Nigerians, especially the masses at rural areas, have the feeling of  the Federal government’s intervention with regards to the N500 billion,“ he said. It would be recalled that the money was approved by President Muhammadu Buhari to be shared to Nigerians as intervention fund to cushion the effects of COVID-19 on Nigerians. Amadi, therefore, urged all Nigerians to join hands together, and cooperate with the government to win the fight against this deadly virus. Vanguard Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has asked the Federal Government and Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to “provide spending details of public funds and private sector donations to provide socio-economic benefits to the country’s poorest and most vulnerable people, including details of beneficiaries of any cash payments, cash transfers,… April 5, 2020 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, SERAP, has asked the Federal Government and Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, to provide and publish spending details of public funds and private sector donations and other benefits during the lockdown in Abuja, Lagos and Ogun States for Coronavirus, COVID-19 pandemic. SERAP,… April 5, 2020 In "News" ABIA Police command has arrested two policemen in Ikwuano and Isiala Ngwa North LGAs for contravening the Inspector General of Police, IGP’s guidelines on lockdown enforcement in some states due to coronavirus outbreak. April 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"