Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State has directed the suspension of some Development Centre Coordinators and immediate dissolution of Sub-Committee on Religious Worshipers. Umahi gave the directive in a statement by Mr Uchenna Orji, Commissioner for Information and State Orientation in Abakaliki on Sunday. He said that the action was with exception of its Chairman, Rev. Fr Abraham Nwali, who was in church at the time of the Sunday service. The governor said that the suspension and dissolution followed failure of the groups to effectively guard the borders and entry points in their domains. He added that the step was also due to the inability of the State Anti-Coronavirus Sub-Committee on Religious Worshipers to ensure the enforcement of the COVID-19 precautionary measures among churches services on April 12, 2020. Umahi said that the Secretary to the State Government and Coordinating Commissioner, Dr Kenneth Ugbala, was compiling the details of the borders reported as having enforcement leakages. “Members of the public are enjoined to call the anti-coronavirus situation room and any member of the anti-coronavirus central committee. “To give genuine information on border, service centre and institution where the regulations and the precautionary measures are not being complied with,” he said. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, has given the go ahead for church services to be held in the state on Easter Sunday. The services are to take place between 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m.on that day. The state government had restricted church worships and other social gatherings as precautionary measures… April 9, 2020 In "News" Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has confirmed that states in the South-East zone were yet to record any confirmed case of the dreaded Coronavirus, known as COVID-19. Umahi, who is the Chairman of the South-East Governors Forum stated this at a press briefing on Tuesday in Abakaliki. He said that… March 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Our Reporters Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, has stated that his administration will henceforth prosecute any security personnel caught collecting bribe at the borders of the state. The governor who stated this while signing into law, the Ebonyi State CoronaVirus and other Dangerous Related Matters Law 05, 2020 at… April 3, 2020 In "News"