Malaysia-based Nigerian singer, Obakpolor Esemuede popularly known as D. Policy has released a new body of work titled ‘Afro Map’. According to the Edo State singer, each track on the EP is a story that exudes pure African Highlife vibes, hence his genre of music which he calls “Afro-Highlife”. The body of work consists of tracks such as Samba, Oganubia, Samantha, Turn Up, Girl Like You, Your Promise, Jor Jor and Where. In the track ‘Jor Jor’, he featured international female DJ and vocalist, Darling Sabrina while the track ‘Where’ is already enjoying massive airplay in radio stations in Nigeria and already making it to many DJ’s favorite playlist in the country. He also put up a dance challenge on social media #AfroMapDanceChallenge starting this Saturday 25th April. The challenge requires participants to dance to any one of the songs in the EP and 8 winners would be selected at the end of the competition and be rewarded with a cash prize of N160,000. D.Policy has over the years been bringing out a lot of African music deeply rooted in Nigerian culture with hit tracks on his belt like African Woman, Fire and Pam Pam which featured award-winning artiste and former MMMG act Tekno. VANGUARD Afro highlife artiste, Kene, who recently dropped his debut EP, titled, “Ote the EP”, consisting of tracks like - Ote, Eledumare, Ada, Egwu Amala and Jide Ofor, featuring KCEE, Ceeza Milli and Nationwize has declared that people say he sounds like Flaour. February 29, 2020 In "Entertainment" One time popular reggae singer from Opoji, Esan central , Sandra Odiahi, who formerly went by the stage names, Sandra, then BlessinDra but now known as BDRA, has announced her new upcoming single entitled Shubby ByeBye, to be released on the 2nd of June. June 1, 2018 In "Entertainment" Pop singer, songwriter and producer Kingsley Amoni better known as Rayce has eventually succumbed to the yearning of his teeming fans, as he is gearing up for his third body of work, a 7-track EP titled "Erection" which will drop on the 27th of September. September 13, 2019 In "Entertainment"