The Sir Emeka Offor Foundation has donated two forty-feet containers of Personal Protective Equipment against COVID-19 to the Nigeria Police Force Medical Service and the Nigerian Army Medical Corps. This was disclosed in a statement issued in Abuja by the Coordinator of the Foundation, Sir Tonny Obi. He said the consignments were handed over to the beneficiaries on Tuesday in Oraifite, Anambra State. Sir Obi said the Federal Medical Centre Yola, Adamawa State also benefitted from a consignment of another container loaded with Medical Equipment and Supplies. “The Consignment contains some of the Personal Protective Equipment needed in the fight against COVID-19 and we feel that the beneficiaries desire same more than ever before. “The situation presented by the ravaging COVID-19 scourge portends that all hands must be on deck to assist the Government of Nigeria in fighting the scourge. This donation therefore is our modest contribution to the National Humanitarian Effort. “The Nigerian Army and the Nigeria Police Force as First Responders deserve the Equipment and Supplies at this period of National Emergency. Those who protect us need protection themselves,” he said. Sir Obi commended the beneficiaries for their strategic intervention in the fight against the Coronavirus and urged them to ensure that the Equipment and Supplies are put to proper use. “For the avoidance of doubt, the beneficiaries of today’s donations are; The Nigeria Police Force Medical Service; The Nigerian Army Medical Corps; The Federal Medical Centre Yola through the Government of Adamawa State. “Each consignment is a 40 feet Container load of Medical Equipment / Supplies and the Packing List is attached to your various letters,” he said while handing over the consignment to the benefitting organisations. The Coordinator further assured that  the Foundation will continue to make necessary interventions in the Health, Education and Empowerment Sectors, and thanked partners for their invaluable support. According to the statement, so far, eleven 11 containers of medical equipment had been delivered to the Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University Teaching Hospital Awka, Anambra State; National Orthopedic Hospital Enugu, Enugu State; Federal Medical Centre Yenagoa, Bayelsa State; and the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital Maiduguri, Borno State. Other benefitting institutions are Gombe State Specialist Hospital; Federal Medical Centre Katsina, Kebbi State Medical Centre Kalgo and Leko Abdurrahman Hospital Duara (General Hospital Daura) in Katsina State. Vanguard SIR Emeka Offor has made donation of  Medical Equipment, Books worth $30 million US dollars to Hospitals, Academic Institutions in Nigeria and 18 Other African Countries following the outbreak of the deadly Coronavirus( COVIC- 19) that is at the moment, ravaging the world. March 27, 2020 In "News" The family of billionaire businessman and Executive Vice-Chairman of Chrome Group, Sir Emeka Offor, has chided a New-York based online newspaper, and others, over what it described as a deliberate targeted smear campaign against their son (Emeka Offor), possibly for economic gain and at the behest of certain unscrupulous elements. September 22, 2016 In "News" BUSINESS mogul, Chief Emeka Offor of the Chrome Group, has donated books and educational equipment worth N1.24 billion to universities, polytechnics, secondary and primary schools cut across the six geo-political zones of the country. October 28, 2012 In "News"