Iran must not give in to US “provocations”, Russia said on Wednesday, following months of mounting tension between Washington and Tehran. “We are urging maximum restraint and caution, not to give in to provocations and aggressive rhetoric,” Russia foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told reporters while urging Iran not to give in to the US provocations. Tehran and Washington have traded barbs over a spate of incidents in the past year involving their forces in the sensitive waters of the Gulf. Their latest high-seas confrontation came on April 15, when the United States said 11 Iranian boats harassed its navy ships in what it described as the international waters of the “Arabian Gulf”. US President Donald Trump tweeted that he had ordered the US Navy to “shoot down and destroy any and all Iranian gunboats if they harass our ships at sea”. Iran’s president replied on Wednesday that “the Americans should know that this gulf is called the Persian Gulf, not the New York Gulf or the Washington Gulf”. Zakharova stressed that both countries should act in “strict accordance with international norms and regulations.” “Moscow has always considered stability and security in the Gulf to be a key factor that influences the situation in the wider regional context,” she added. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. RECENTLY, Iran paratroopers of its elite Revolutionary Guard made a spectacular dash to a British flagged ship in the busy Strait of Hormuz, arresting and escorting the ship to its nearby port of Bander Abass, with an accusation that it obstructed Iranian fishing boats. But everyone knows Tehran has just… July 24, 2019 In "News" China on Tuesday warned against opening a "Pandora's box" in the Middle East after the United States announced the deployment of 1,000 additional troops to the region amid escalating tensions with Iran. June 18, 2019 In "Foreign" Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has inducted a locally built air-defence system into the country's missile defence network at an unveiling ceremony in the capital, Tehran. Bavar-373 has been introduced as the country's first domestically made long-range missile defence system [Credit: Reuters] The display of the new system, Bavar-373, on Tuesday… August 22, 2019 In "Foreign"