The Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says it will not mete out punishment on Prof. Alakija Salami, a Senior Consultant in the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH) for alleged unethical conduct. Dr. Alihu Adebara, NCDC Team Leader to Kwara, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ilorin on Thursday, said the NCDC was leaving the matter of any punitive measures to the state government to handle. NAN reports that Salami was accused of allegedly concealing his travel history, the management and eventual release of the corpse of a suspected COVID -19 patient who died in the UITH. The Kwara Governor, Malam Abdulrahman Abdulrazak,  however,  had already called for the suspension of Salami, an expert in infectious diseases. On the level of preparedness, Adebara said the NCDC had assessed the situation and level of preparedness in the state and found out the state government had put in place the necessary facilities. “Basically, the NCDC has confirmed two cases of COVID-19 in the state and so many contact tracing of over 200 has commenced. “We will offer the necessary support to complement the state government’s efforts,” he said. The NCDC Team Lead warned that COVID-19 is real, and called on anybody who had been in high risks countries to self isolate for 14 days. He urged people to abide by the social distancing directives of the Kwara Government, adding that hand washing and hygiene should be practiced religiously. vanguard By Demola Akinyemi Governor Abdulrazaq Abdulrahman of Kwara state on Tuesday said, about 75 persons who had contact with the two COVID-19 patients in the state are under contact-tracing in order to curb the spread of the infectious disease in the state. Governor Abdulrazaq speaking at a press conference… April 7, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" LAGOS—The  Federal Government, yesterday, said it does not know if the lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, ordered to check the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic would end in 14 days.. April 8, 2020 In "News" Kwara State government Monday evening confirmed two separate cases of COVID-19 in the state, one being the wife of the UITH patient who died last week Thursday, while the second is another United Kingdom returnee. Spokesman of Technical Committee on COVID-19, Rafiu Ajakaye said this in a statement he issued… April 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"