The Federal Government has delivered 110 trucks of grains to Kano State to cushion the effect of the lockdown occasioned by COVID-19 in the state. Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development in a statement on Tuesday by her Special Assistant on Media, Mr Salisu Dambatta said 10 trucks of rice were delivered last two weeks. “In addition to that, we have directed the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to deliver 100 trucks of grains to five locations in Kano state for distribution to poor and vulnerable households. ” This makes it a total of 110 trucks to Kano. “The grains in 100 trailers now on their way to Kano, comprise, millet, sorghum and maize, which were released from silos holding the country’s strategic food reserve located across the country. “One of the humanitarian interventions provided by the Federal Government is the delivery of food items as palliatives to the poor and vulnerable in all states affected by the COVID-19 pandemic to ease the lockdown situation,” Farouq said. She said the ministry would continue to work closely with all the agencies under its purview, including NEMA in discharging its mandates, including providing effective coordination of humanitarian interventions both nationally and internationally. According to her, this is for the benefit of the citizens of this country, especially during this COVID-19 Pandemic. NAN Vanguard News Nigeria The Federal Government has donated 42 trucks of food items to the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) for onward distribution to the poor and vulnerable people within the city and satellite towns. Ms. Sadiya Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Social Development and Disaster Management, presented the donation to the FCT… April 22, 2020 In "News" By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Monday, handed over 12, 500 metric tonnes of food to the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management and Social Development as part of the release of the 70, 000 metric tonnes of order ordered to be… April 7, 2020 In "Agric" Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, says People Living with Disabilities (PWDs) will also benefit from the Federal Government’s intervention to cushion the effect of the COVID-19 lockdown. April 23, 2020 In "News"