Nollywood actor and model, Alex Ekubo has poured his heart out to actress Omoni Oboli after he penned a heartwarming birthday message for the actress, who turned 42 on Wednesday. In his message, the handsome actor eulogized the actress, revealing that she’s one of the people who are encouraging him to embrace marriage. The actress has announced her birthday on her Instagram page. “Lord I thank you for your grace upon my life! I am so unworthy yet you chose to bless me. Thank you for another birthday! Chapter 42 and I’m more than determined to live life to the max! I can’t keep calm, it’s my birthday,” she wrote . Immediately, actor, Alex Ekubo penned a sweet birthday message for the birthday girl. “Happy birthday to an amazing human being. @omonioboli you’re such a vibrant human being, one that radiates positivity. thanks for being a supportive friend, a friend that helps me earn money. If your friend is in a position to help you, and has not helped you make money, or pointed you in the money direction, after this pandemic throw that friend away. I love everything about you, I love how you love your family. You are among the few people who are making marriage “hungry” me,” Ekubo wrote. Vanguard Omoni Oboli has come a long way as a seasoned actress and producer, having made her debut in the movie industry after starring in ‘Bitter Encounter’ in 1996, where she played a secretary. She went on to star in the movie ‘Shame’, but it was Lonzo Nzekwe’s “Anchor Baby”featuring herself… April 27, 2018 In "Entertainment" This experience was more pronounced at the set of Lancelot’s ATM, featuring the likes of Francis Get out of Here”star, Odega, Nollywood hunk, Alex Ekubo, Yvonne Jegede, Eleno, and British-born actress, Claire Edun, aka Oyibo Princess. January 30, 2016 In "Home Video People" For Omoni Oboli, 2015 is turning out to be the year of outstanding and mind blowing achievements especially after she was announced as Nollywood/entertainment personality of the year 2015 by The Sun newspaper, taking over from popular music producer, Don Jazzy who won for the year 2014 and she signed… November 22, 2015 In "Home Video People"