A Chief Magistrates’ Court in Kafanchan, Kaduna State on Wednesday sentenced a 23-year-old man, Alkasim Abdullahi, to two months in a correctional facility for stealing a laptop and other items. The magistrate, Abdulaziz Ibrahim, also ordered that the convict be given 10 strokes of the cane. The convict was facing a two count charge of trespass and theft, contrary to sections 333 and 271 of the Kaduna State Penal Code. The Police Prosecutor, Insp. Johnson Ibudu, had told the court that one Abba Abdullahi reported the matter at the Kafanchan Divisional station on April 18. Ibudu said the complainant alleged that Abdullahi trespassed into his room and stole his laptop, charger, Bluetooth, recharge card and memory card, all totaling N31,800. When the charges were read to the accused, he pleaded guilty and begged the court for leniency. The Prosecutor thereafter asked the court to try him summarily in line with section 25(8) of the Administration of Criminal Justice. In another news, the Kaduna  State Governor, Nasiru Ahmad El-Rufa’i warned that coronavirus was not a friend to anybody, and could strike where it was least expected. He spoke in a radio Hausa program monitored by journalists in Kaduna on Wednesday. “Despite the security paraphernalia around me, I got the virus. This goes to show that the virus does not recognize any personality,” he said On why he returned to his clean shave looks, he said: “I’m truly aging. I’m a few steps above 60 and this disease is not kind to the old. I’m old. That is the danger. If one is above 50, one should be very careful not to contract the virus. To an aged person with other health complications like diabetes, hypertension, coronavirus will be very deadly.” [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. An Upper Sharia Court in Kaduna on Tuesday sentenced two artisans, Saminu Ahmed, 25 and Mohammed Isah, 23, to 10 strokes of the cane each for stealing two  Television sets and two laptops. The Judge, Mustapha Umar, sentenced them after they pleaded guilty to criminal conspiracy, housebreaking and theft… November 20, 2019 In "News" A Minna Chief Magistrates’ Court on Wednesday sentenced one Abubakar Abdullahi to 12 strokes of the cane after pleading guilty to a charge of stealing a fowl. November 6, 2013 In "News" A Daura Road Upper Sharia Court in Kaduna, on Friday, ordered that a 19-year-old labourer, Anas Umar, be given 20 strokes of cane for stealing a Nokia phone valued N4,000. February 2, 2018 In "Just Human"