Joe Biden won the endorsement for US president Monday of Nancy Pelosi, who hailed him as a “voice of reason” capable of leading America out of the coronavirus crisis. Pelosi was the last leading Democrat to endorse formally Biden’s run for the White House against Republican Donald Trump in November. “Today I am proud to endorse Joe Biden for president of the United States because he will be an extraordinary president,” the speaker of the House of Representatives said in the pre-recorded message. Biden, who served as vice president under former President Barack Obama, had already emerged as the Democrats’ presumptive nominee after decisive primary victories in a string of primaries before the COVID-19 pandemic shut down much of the country. His main rivals, including Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, have dropped out of the race and endorsed Biden as has Obama. In her statement, Pelosi lauded the former senator from Delaware as a man of “empathy, grace and courage” and “a leader with the humility to seek expertise in science and the confidence to act on it.” “As we face coronavirus Joe Biden has been a voice of reason and resilience with a clear path to lead us out of this crisis,” she said. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. President Donald Trump threatened on Saturday night to sue top congressional Democrats Rep. Adam Schiff and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi amid the House impeachment inquiry into the President. Trump, who has a long track record of calling for lawsuits against his critics and not following through, said, "We're going to take a… October 13, 2019 In "Foreign" US President Donald Trump said Friday he will formally object to Congress's impeachment enquiry even as he acknowledged that House Democrats "have the votes" to proceed. The White House was expected to send a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi arguing that Congress cannot conduct an impeachment investigation without first… October 5, 2019 In "Foreign" When the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi took her place to announce an impeachment investigation into the President, Donald Trump, nearly every Democrat running for president in 2020 and an overwhelming share of her caucus supported the move. Seemingly the tide had turned. After months… September 26, 2019 In "Foreign"