Amidst the struggle to curtail, and to successfully end the era of Covid-19, Nigerian Bishop, Sam Zuga of House of Joy Ministry, who recently unveiled the solution to tackle the dreaded disease and other ailments, has written an open letter to President Muhammad Buhari and Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State, seeking permission to use his spiritual formula H2O+NaCl+C12H22O11+ 33°C = 37²7/322 on Nigerians in a 7-day healing festival at Ribadu square, Yola – Adamawa State. The Healing  Festival is slated to  take place from 14th of April. The highly respected Bishop wishes to let the president know that millions of Nigerians have benefited from his free medical treatment programs using different formulas revealed by God, while reminding the governor of Adamawa State that the same program has been going on in Nurses House Yola and all Local Government headquarters in Adamawa State for the past 6 months with amazing testimonies until the lockdown order. His letter reads: “Your Excellencies, President Muhammad Buhari through Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State, I wish to turn Adamawa State to become a medical destinations like India and Germany. I want to share with you the formula that would make Coronavirus bow; H2O+NaCl+C12H22O11+ 33°C = 37²7/322. It is a combination of water, salt and sugar boiled to a certain temperature. 3 teaspoons of salt, 7 cups of water fetched with plastic cup. It must be a plastic cup. The 3 spoons of salt should be added inside the water, then 7 cubes of sugar. Place it on the fire, boil it for 7 minutes. The boiling temperature should be 33°C . When they all come together, it would become a Solution. This formula shall be served by drinking a cover of any bottle water, 3 times in the morning, 2 times in the afternoon and 2 times at night 7 days. Those that don’t have a cover of bottle water, can use table spoons. 7 covers of any bottle water from the solution can also be added inside the bathing water of the patient. The formula is not just for Covid -19, but any other chronic disease. Once any patient start taking it, they should expect a reaction from the third day, regardless of how chronic or deadly the ailment is. On the 7th day they shall receive a total healing and can go for a test/checkup in the hospital on the 8th and receive your good news. Your Excellencies, I seek your permission to use the above mentioned Formula to heal the people of Nigeria, through a healing festival slated to commence from 14th of April, “if permission to go ahead is granted” and also to be  permitted to organise same healing festival in the Six (6) Geopolitical zones within the month of April.  Over 3 million Nigerians have benefited from my free medical treatment programs using different formulas revealed to me by God, same program has been going on in Nurses House Yola and all Local Government headquarters in Adamawa State for the past 6 months with amazing testimonies until the lockdown order. Although, Adamawa State has not recorded any case of coronavirus, they can bring other medical cases with reports and watch them and to also Conduct test on them after 7 days of my treatment with this formula, they would be retested for a different outcome. This formula is for all; Christian, Muslims, pagans and all. But you must say these prayers before it would work. “Lord Jesus Christ, I come to you today. I am a sinner, forgive me my sins. From today, I accept you as my Lord and personal saviour. Heal me, Jesus Christ, so that I will serve you all the days of my life. Thank You Father for saving and healing me. In Jesus name..Amen!” However, this formula can only work between 1st to 30th April 2020, is not a forever formula just as the bronze snake of Moses is not a forever treatment for snake bite. This is just a Divine intervention for this hard times. Vanguard Bishop Sam Zuga of house of Joy ministry, the founder of both Samzuga free medical treatment and Samzuga international has offered to treat anyone with coronavirus free of charge and also said, "anyone with corona virus should be referred to him for treatment" March 27, 2020 In "News" At the recent inauguration of the newly elected National leaders of Samzuga international, Bishop Sam Zuga of House of Joy ministry, also known as Jehovah Field Marshall pleaded with Nigerians to embrace change and become agents of change in order to make the Nation a better place. March 21, 2020 In "News" The General Overseer of House of Joy ministry, Bishop Sam Zuga recently launched his free Medical treatment in four different states in Nigeria. October 25, 2019 In "News"