The Nigerian lady, Peace Ufuoma, that was recently advertised for sale on Facebook by Wael Jerro, a Lebanese, has been rescued. Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, NIDCOM, made the announcement on its Twitter handle on Tuesday. The tweet read: “The Nigerian girl who was trafficked and put for sale by a Lebanese man, Wael Jerro, has been rescued. She is presently with the Nigerian Mission in Lebanon,” it wrote on Twitter. “This is coming days after the arrest of Mr Jerro (for putting up Peace Ufuoma for sale). Many thanks to the Nigerian mission in Lebanon for swinging into immediate action.” ALSO READ: Lagos First Lady disclaims fake Facebook accounts Abike Dabiri-Erewa, NIDCOM boss, also shared a video clip of an interview conducted with Ufuoma on her Twitter handle. In the video, Peace Ufuoma can be heard saying that trouble started after the person she was working for couldn’t afford to pay her salary. She added: “The person that I am working with said that he can’t pay my salary again and I told him if he knows that he can’t pay my salary, he should take me back to.” Recall that Jerro provoked outrage after he offered to sell Ufuoma for $1,000 on Facebook. He shared the passport of the lady to ‘Buy and Sell in Lebanon,’ a group on the social media platform, alongside a post written in Arabic, calling for prospective buyers. The passport shows it was acquired in May 2018, and that the bearer hails from Ibadan, Oyo State. Vanguard The Oyo State Government has pledged to ensure the safe return of an indigene of the state identified as Peace Ufuoma Busari who was recently put up for sale on the internet in Lebanon for $1000. The government’s pledge was contained in a statement issued in Ibadan by Mrs Bolanle… April 27, 2020 In "News" By David Royal A Lebanese, identified as Mr. WAEL JERRO, who offered to sell a Nigerian woman for $1,000 on Facebook has been arrested by the Lebanese government. The Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, said this in a tweet on Thursday. “Breaking news on Trafficked Nigerian… April 23, 2020 In "News" By David Royal Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, tweeted this on Tuesday that a manhunt has begun for a Lebanese who offered to sell Nigerian woman for $1,000. She said: “The Nigerian mission in Lebanon has since reported to the host authorities. A manhunt is on… April 21, 2020 In "News"