Gov. Aminu Masari of Katsina State has confirmed nine new cases of COVID-19 in the state. Masari made this known while briefing newsmen on Sunday in Katsina. “We sent samples of 287 suspected persons to the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) for screening. “From the sample, nine tested positive for COVID-19. Four of the confirmed cases from Daura, four from Katsina and one from in Dutsinma local government areas of the state. “The nine persons had direct contact with the index cases in Daura, Katsina and Dutsinma. “We still have 16 samples in the laboratory waiting for transportation to the National laboratory of the NCDC, Abuja for screening. “Another 20 samples will be taken again for screening because they were first taken to the Kano centre which was shut down for the time being,” he said. The governor said that the state now has 30 cases with one death. He disclosed that the patients were on admission at the Federal Medical Centre, Katsina. “We are now waiting for the second screening for seven others to be conducted in the next two days before they are discharged,” he said. He urged the people to continue to abide by the advice given by health experts in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. “People should keep social distancing, frequent washing of their hands with soap and running water, using sanitisers, covering their nose and mouth with mask, among others. “I have also mobilised and directed the law enforcement agencies to enforce the lockdown to stop the spread of the virus in the state,” he said. NAN Vanguard Nigeria News The Katsina State Government said on Friday the wife and two children of the medical doctor, who died of COVID-19 in Daura local government area of the state had tested positive for the virus. The state governor, Aminu Masari, who disclosed this to journalists, said the wife and two children… April 10, 2020 In "News" Katsina—Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State, yesterday said the dreaded corona virus, COVID-19 pandemic had claimed its first victim in the state. The victim was private medical practitioner. April 8, 2020 In "News" Gov.  Aminu Masari of Katsina State has urged the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) to hasten completion of COVID-19 tests for those who had contact with the late medical doctor who died of Coronavirus in the state. April 8, 2020 In "News"