While most nine-year-olds have been battling during lockdown with the vagaries of home schooling, Lupo Daturi has been waging war on COVID-19 itself. Virtually. The fourth-grade pupil from the outskirts of Milan, where inhabitants have been living in lockdown since March 8, has used his time to create a video game to play with his friends. “I had to stop all the sports I did because of COVID-19,” he says. “I can’t even go to the pond with my dog. Instead of playing sports — skiing, swimming and karate — I have to make do with an exercise bike.” That led Lupo to turn his attention to progamming, a passion that he shares with his father Marco, a business manager. He took some online tutorials and set to work on building his game — Cerba-20. The aim of the game is a fairly typical ‘seek and destroy’ with lasers, except in this case, the player is in the captain’s chair of the Cerba-20 spacecraft and the enemy is, that’s right, COVID-19. Lupo explains that he plays with his friends and that he now intends to set up a project to teach them how to programme. “He also receives requests from his teachers to programme something useful, not just games,” says his father. Many parents with children who have been gorging themselves on video games during lockdown might be concerned by Lupo’s new interest..But his mother, a lawyer, dismisses such anxieties. “I’m not worried because my son is not a ‘nerd’,” says 44-year-old Francesca Zambonin, who is just “happy because he is passionate about something that can help him.” “The fact that he invented a game that has gone viral makes me happy because it motivates him to do even more.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. By Mike Ebonugwo, Olasunkanmi Akoni, Levinus Nwabughiogu & James Ogunnaike Even with the dreaded coronavirus, COVID-19 lockdown, it is obvious that not even the fear of death by the disease can keep Nigerians locked up or restricted from moving out to pursue their daily bread or engage in other activities… April 8, 2020 In "Features" Over one fifth of the world’s population has been under lockdown in the global fight against coronavirus, Nigeria inclusive. According to the Director General of the World Health Organisation, WHO, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, countries need to lock down their populations and the period used to attack and prevent the spread… April 6, 2020 In "News" England defender Kyle Walker is facing disciplinary action from English Premier League team Manchester City after appearing to break lockdown conditions during the coronavirus pandemic. The 29-year-old Walker apologized on Sunday after it was widely reported he held a party involving two sex workers at his home last week, breaking… April 6, 2020 In "Sports"