Boris Johnson came close to death as he desperately fought coronavirus in an intensive care unit, his friends revealed last night. After rallying, the Prime Minister told them that he owed his life to the doctors and nurses at St Thomas’ Hospital in London, adding: “I can’t thank them enough.” The Mail on Sunday today (Saturday) reveals the extraordinary battle to save the stricken PM by medics who had been expecting him in hospital three days before he was finally admitted last Sunday. At one point, Mr Johnson’s plight was so grave that Cabinet Ministers and aides prayed for him. While in hospital, Mr Johnson has been boosted by a love letter from his fiancee, Carrie Symonds, which included a scan of their unborn child. ALSO READ: “I am worried for two”: Pregnant women and the risk of coronavirus contagion The Prime Minister plans to recuperate at Chequers after his release from hospital but, with a further 979 coronavirus deaths announced yesterday, bringing the total in the UK to 9,937, his allies insist he will control the vital process of when – and how – Britain emerges from the lockdown. Speaking at the daily press conference yesterday, Home Secretary Priti Patel said: ‘It is vital that our Prime Minister gets well. We want him to get better and he needs time and space to rest, recuperate and recover.’ The PM’s steady recovery came as fears grew of a surge in deaths. Ministers have been warned that coronavirus is now affecting more than 15 percent of care homes, with many deaths in the social care sector not included in the current total. Meanwhile, the Government apologised for a lack of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for health workers after medical groups accused Health Secretary Matt Hancock of implying that it had been wasted. Announcing that 19 NHS workers had died since the Covid-19 outbreak began, Mr Hancock said he didn’t want to put ‘blame on people who have used more PPE than the guidelines suggest because I understand the difficulties in the circumstances. What I would say it is very important to use the right PPE and not overuse it.’ Vanguard Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he was “in good spirits” on Monday, following his hospital admission after failing to shake off symptoms of the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. April 6, 2020 In "News" Boris Johnson was tonight taken out of intensive care in a sign he is winning his coronavirus battle. The Prime Minister, who has been in hospital since Sunday, has spent three nights in a high-dependency unit at St Thomas's Hospital in central London after his condition deteriorated. The announcement came… April 9, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Boris Johnson has been admitted to hospital ten days after testing positive for coronavirus, Downing Street announced tonight. The Prime Minister, who is still suffering from the symptoms of the disease, will undergo tests as a precaution. A Downing Street spokesperson said: 'On the advice of his doctor, the Prime… April 5, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"