Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) president, Amaju Pinnick has given assured that a new contract for Super Eagles boss Gernot Rohr will be ready in a week. Pinnick however made it known that the Rohr’s contract will only be renewed if he accepts the new set conditions. These conditions inserted include:
1. He must reside in Nigeria,
2. His salary will be paid in naira
3. He must watch league matches with a view to picking players that could be nurtured to become international stars. “In one week, Rohr will get his contract, he should study his contract and come back to us. So, give and take, within seven days, he should have his contract,” Pinnick stated in an interview on Arise TV ‘Morning Show’ on Monday. “The only thing that can impede the contract is if he refuses some of our new clauses in the contract. “Rohr should live in Nigeria and go around to watch the league matches and see how to nurture the players. “He has to be paid in naira, we will pay him naira equivalent of the dollars, we have to strengthen our currency. If he’s able to accept, we have a deal.” Pinnick also assured Nigerians that getting a new coach won’t be a challenge should Rohr decline the terms. “I get calls every day from coaches that want to come here,” Pinnick added. Vanguard President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Amaju Pinnick has confirmed Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr will be required to reside in the country. The German tactician was appointed in 2016 on a three-year contract - which runs out this month - and will be offered a new deal following… December 27, 2019 In "Sports" A former Chairman of the defunct Nigeria Football Association, Kojo Williams has frowned on the decision by the President of the NFF, Amaju Pinnick to send Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr to Germany on a refresher course. July 20, 2019 In "News" President Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick has declared that Super Eagles head coach Gernot Rohr cannot continue to decide which stadium should host the team’s international home games. November 7, 2018 In "News"