KANO —Four members of a family reportedly  died when their building collapsed while they were asleep, Monday night, at Saberi area in Gwale Local Government Area of  Kano State  State. It was gathered that seven people were trapped in the collapsed building, but three of them were rescued, including a year old boy. Two people were also confirmed dead after drowning in the ancient city on Monday Public Relations Officer, Kano State Fire Service, Saidu Mohammed, who confirmed the incident, said: “Seven persons were on Monday, April 13 trapped in a collapsed building at Saberi area, Gwale Local Government Area of the state. “They were asleep when the incident happened. Four of them, members of a family, later died at Murtala Muhammed Specialist Hospital, Kano while the remaining three victims were rescued and receiving treatment at the hospital. “Among those rescued was a year-old boy. We received a distress call from one Sadi Gora, who lives in the neighbourhood, at about 11:45 p.m. that a building had collapsed in the area. “On receiving the information, we quickly deployed our rescue team to the scene at about 11:55 p.m. The cause of the incident is still under investigation.” Saidu Mohammed also disclosed that the service also received another distress call on Monday after  three persons fell inside a well at Hotoro Limawa Quarters in Tarauni Local Government Area of the state. “On receiving the information, we quickly sent our rescue team and a vehicle to the scene at about 1:30 p.m. The team rescued them but found out that only one of them was alive while the remaining two were dead. “However, today (yesterday), we received a distress call around 1:27pm from Jibril Ibrahim at Na’ibawa by-pass Kumbotso local government  that the 19-year- old Muhammad Munkaila, who was  rescued  from a well died and had been handed over to the ward head of Unguwa Uku.” Vanguard The Kano State Fire Service on Tuesday confirmed that four members of a family died in a collapsed building at the Saberi area in Gwale local government area of the state. The Spokesman of the Service, Saidu Mohammed, who confirmed the incident in a statement in Kano, said that three… April 14, 2020 In "News" The Kano State Fire Service has confirmed that four members of a family died in a collapsed building at Saberi area in Gwale Local Government Area, on Monday. The Spokesman of the Service, Saidu Mohammed, who confirmed the incident in a statement on Tuesday in Kano, said that three other… April 14, 2020 In "Metro" Firemen have rescued six persons trapped in a building which collapsed on Wednesday evening at Gwammaja in Dala Local Government area in Kano. September 6, 2018 In "News"