The decision of the Foreign Portfolio Investors, FPIs, to exit the country in the wake of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic as well as the huge decline in the price of crude oil in the international market have put severe pressure on both external reserves and the exchange rate. As at last weekend, oil price lost for the third consecutive week on the back of declining global demand due to economic lockdown globally. An agreement by major oil producers to reduce global output have failed to lift prices amid low storage concerns which hindered positive response in the global oil market. Following this, Brent crude price declined 11.6% week-on-week to US$24.8/bbl. while Nigeria’s external reserves further declined 0.1% to US$33.6billion. Consequently, at the parallel market, the Naira depreciated ?14.00 to close at ?420.00/$1.00. At the Investors’ & Exporters’ (I&E) Window, the NAFEX rate depreciated ?0.33 to settle at ?388.78/$1.00. The activity level in I&E Window fell 38.7% to $187.8million from $306.3million recorded in the previous week. Lower Dollar spending limit on debit cards In response to the decline in dollar supply as well as rising demand, some banks, namely Zenith, Fidelity, GTBank reduced the monthly dollar spending limit on debit cards. While Zenith Bank reduced monthly limits to $1,000, Guaranty Trust Bank reduced monthly limits to $500. Fidelity Bank on its part reduced monthly limits to $1,000 from $3,000. Disruption in banking services In addition to its rattling effect on the foreign exchange and fixed income markets, the COVID-19 pandemic has also caused massive disruption in banking services, as banks implement social distancing rules, in a bid to battle the spread of the Coronavirus.
For example, from the third week in March and prior to the lockdown of Lagos, Ogun States and Abuja, most banks directed non essential staff to work home. Banks also restricted the number of customers allowed inside the banking halls per time to 25 people, leading to massive crowds outside banking halls with customers spending more time to gain entry into the banking hall. Furthermore and following the lockdown in Lagos, Ogun States and Abuja, the CBN suspended cheque clearing activities till further notice while banking service was further reduced to skeletal operations in across the country, with transactions restricted to electronic payment channels and ATMs for cash withdrawals. THE uncertainty and general decline in global economic activities caused by the Coronavirus, COVID-19, pandemic as well as the sharp drop in the price of crude oil have further dimmed Nigeria’s prospect of reversing the downward trend in foreign portfolio investments (FPIs) in the Nigerian Treasury Bills (NTBs). FPI in… March 30, 2020 In "Business" The downward trend in the fortunes of the Naira last month is expected to persist this month even as the nation’s external reserves is expected to trend below $34 billion for the first time since September 2017. Last month, the external reserves fell for the ninth consecutive months, shedding N1.135… April 6, 2020 In "Business" THE Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) may have launched an emergency campaigns ostensibly to rescue the Nigerian economy from the fallouts of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) induced global economic stress. March 16, 2020 In "Business"