Nigerian DJ, record executive, songwriter and record producer, Kingsley Dumnoi, known professionally as DJ Val Exclusive has explained why he wears mask. According to him, he said, “bringing a different flavour in the game means I have to start by branding myself with a unique style. The mask is not about me hiding my identity, it’s my alter ego”. DJVal who was born in Nigeria, later moved to Cape Town South Africa in 2011 and first gained prominence as a record executive in 2019. “I got inspired by a close friend called DJ Mena back when I was in the polytechnic. He used to take me along with him whenever he was playing at the departmental parties on campus” he recalled. According to him, he took music up as a career in 2019 after noticing the African music flavour from most DJs in Cape Town was not enough “I will say so far it’s been overwhelming, within a short period of time I have been able to gain a massive fan base. I am currently working with Adeoluwa Anjorin, professionally known as Dmain (An Afro Pop artist/producer based in Cape Town) as his official DJ and we are working on several projects with some of the biggest artistes in the industry,” he added DJ Val is set to drop his first official single next month. VANGUARD Jimmy Adewale Amu, popularly known as DJ Jimmy Jatt is one of Nigeria’s most influential and entertaining DJs. As a party-starter, beat-dropper, headliner and underground king who has been rocking the dance floor for close to three decades now, Jimmy Jatt has seen it all. He is revered for his… January 16, 2016 In "Entertainment" New president of Choc Boi Nation, Olawunmi Okerayi, popularly known as DJ Lambo, has hinted that nothing would stop her from continuing in her craft as a Disc Jockey, even at old age. In a recent interview, she told Showtime that staying relevant would be the only proof she can… July 8, 2017 In "Music" Nigeria-born, South Africa-based Disc Jockey, DJ Bamzyriches has berated the Nigerian music industry and the practitioners for their insensitivity to the plight and aspirations of upcoming artistes, saying the industry is unkind to them. March 29, 2020 In "News"