Hours before her arrest, actress Funke Akindele, aka, Jenifa, said her husband, Abdulrasheed Bello aka JJC Skillz; and singer Azeez Fashola aka Naira Marley, were in her house before the lockdown order from the Federal Government. The funny actress opined that none of her guests violated the lockdown order. Disclosing this in a video, Funke said she would never mislead anybody, noting that she practices what she preaches. Her words, “I have seen all the messages on Social Media. I will not intentionally mislead people. “It was my husband’s birthday. Both of us run a studio which is located in Amen Estate where we live. “When the pandemic started, we stopped all productions including our new projects. “But before the lockdown was announced by our President, some youths have been in the boot camp here in Amen Estate – majority of the youths were those you saw in the video. “Naira Marley came in here before the lockdown. And when the lockdown was announced, he said he would love to stay back, saying he loves this environment. “I said okay fine. Then my husband’s birthday came up. And we all came together as a family. “Everybody in that video had been in Amen Estate some months before, weeks before and days before the lockdown. Nobody came from their houses to party with us. “I am sorry if I have misled you. I appreciate your concerns and I promise to always practice what I preach. “I promise to always support the government in creating more awareness to eradicate this pandemic.” Recall that Police had instructed Naira Marley and Funke’s husband to submit selves for interrogation or risked being placed in the forces wanted list, for violating social distancing order. Vanguard THE Lagos State Police Command, yesterday, arrested popular actress, Mrs. Funke Akindele-Bello for hosting a party to celebrate the birthday of her husband, Abdulrasheed Bello aka JJC Skillz on Saturday in contravention of the lockdown order in Lagos State. April 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Olasunkanmi Akoni & David Royal The Lagos State Police Command said it has arrested Nollywood star,  Funke Akindele for defying government's order on social distancing to contain the spread of coronavirus in the country. Funke's arrest was confirmed on twitter by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor of… April 5, 2020 In "Entertainment" ...As LASG set to investigate matter ...Apologizes to Nigerians By Olasunkanmi Akoni It is not the best of time for the popular Nollywood super actress and Ambassador of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, Funke Akindele-Bello, as Lagos State Government is set to investigate the widespread news of a… April 6, 2020 In "News"