The Federal Capital Territory Administration FCTA has expressed dismay at the unprofessional conduct of some of those who conducted the burial rites of the late Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, saying they have all been identified and would be quarantined. Dr Mohammed Kawu, Acting Secretary Health and Human Services Secretariat in the FCT Administration disclosed this in a statement Saturday night in Abuja. He said; “The Health and Human Services Secretariat of the FCT Administration has noted with concern the video trending on social media, showing a man pulling off his Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) unprofessionally after participating in the burial of the late Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Malam Abba Kyari, at the Gudu cemetery, Abuja. “The Public Health Department has since taken neccasry action. “The said PPE left over by the individual has been professionally evacuated and the entire cemetery has been decontaminated. In addition, all the individuals including the man in question that participated in the burial and were not properly kitted have been identified and are being isolated. “Necessary tests will conducted on all of them to determine their level of exposure and ensure that they do not infect other people. “The Administration has also taken steps to ensure that all future burials of victims of COVID 19 are conducted in line with protocols established by the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). “Residents are therefore urged to remain calm and rest assured that the FCT Administration will continue to do all that is necessary to curtail and eventually end the spread of the Coronavirus in the FCT”, he added. Vanguard Nigeria News By Johnbosco Agbakwuru The Presidency on Saturday banned all forms of condolence visits to the family of the late Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari and the presidency. The ban which came shortly after the late Chief of Staff was buried at Gudu Cemetery, Abuja according to… April 18, 2020 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru The body of the late Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, was flown into Abuja Saturday morning for interment. It was received at the Nnamdi International Airport, Abuja by senior officials of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. The body arrived preparatory to its interment… April 18, 2020 In "News" The former Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari was on Saturday buried at the Gudu Cemetery in Abuja. Kyari died on Friday in Lagos from complications of coronavirus. Photos by Abayomi Adeshida READ ALSO: Akinwunmi Adeshina reacts to death of Abba Kyari VANGUARD April 18, 2020 In "Photos"