The Federal Government had on Tuesday warned Nigerians against resort to the use of a ‘fake vaccine’ produced in Kano for the treatment of the Novel Coronavirus. Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed gave the warning in Abuja during the daily briefing of the Presidential Taskforce on Covid-19. He said; “In the absence of vaccine or drugs, Non-Pharmaceutical Intervention NPI remains the most effective way to contain the spread of the disease and protect Nigerians. By the way, you must have heard of the vaccine being hawked in Kano which is called ‘Covid-19 Vaccine’. It is yellow in colour. It is not certified by anybody. Please, do not patronize the hawkers. “In the meantime, the National Broadcasting Commission NBC has taken steps to prevent misinformation via the broadcast stations by warning them to adhere strictly to the professional ethics of balance and fairness in reporting COVID-19. “In particular, the Commission has warned the stations against bringing on their programmes ‘panellists’ with agenda to make reckless statements and insinuations”. Vanguard Nigeria News .Denies Govs flight clearance .As FCT discharges 11 patients, records one fatality .Police threaten to seal Motor Parks By Omeiza Ajayi ABUJA -- The Federal Government has warned Nigerians against resort to the use of a 'fake vaccine' produced in Kano for the treatment of the Novel Coronavirus. Minister of… April 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Kano State Government has ordered the closure of land borders and routes linking the state to other parts of the country with effect from Friday, March 27, to contain the spread of Coronavirus pandemic.‎ Abba Anwar, Chief Press Secretary to the Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje, made the disclosure in a statement… March 26, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday urged Nigerians to comply with the restriction directive “once more” in order to defeat the coronavirus. The President in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, also promised more interventions for vulnerable citizens. Buhari had on March 29… April 11, 2020 In "News"