The Nigerian insurance industry has provided life insurance cover of N11 billion for frontline health workers in the battle against COVID-19. The amount which is the sum assured is being provided by the insurance industry comprising all insurance, reinsurance and insurance broking companies, and will cover doctors, pharmacists, nurses as well as other ancillary personnel and volunteers in the frontline of the battle against the Virus. Under the cover announced by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, the industry is providing life insurance for a maximum of 5000 frontline health workers engaged by the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control across the thirty six (36) states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Speaking on the insurance coverage, Director General of Nigerian Insurers Association, NIA, Mrs. Yetunde Ilori said that the move is in fulfillment of the pledge made to the Federal Government by insurance industry leaders as part of the industry’s contribution to the battle against coronavirus disease. She said that the premium of N112.5 million which is for one year coverage (12months) has been paid in line with the extant law on insurance contracts especially as it relates to ‘No premium, no cover.’ She said that the life insurance policy document: “COVID-19 Intervention Team Life Insurance Cover” detailing the extent of cover and benefits payable under the policy was earlier submitted to the Honourable Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning. Mrs. Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed by the Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas and formally handed over to the Chairman, Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, by a member of Governing Council of NIA, Mrs. Folashade Joseph and President of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB), Dr. Mrs. Bola Onigbogi. Olasunkanmi Akoni A consortium of six insurance companies in Nigeria on Saturday put together an insurance cover of N5billion for health workers and volunteers tackling the coronavirus pandemic in the state. The firms are - Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Custodian and Allied Insurance Plc, Lasaco Assurance Plc, AIICO Insurance Plc,… April 4, 2020 In "News" It is welcome development, but... — NMA, NARD & PSN Unacceptable to us — Lab scientists Disparity is only snag — NUAP By Chioma Obinna Reactions have continued to trail the life insurance provided by the Federal Government and the Nigerian insurance industry for 5,000 frontline health workers in the… April 28, 2020 In "Health" Lagos, Nigeria, Friday 17, April, 2020- In the face of recent the global events surrounding the rapid spread of the COVID-19 virus, Tangerine Life has made concerted efforts to stem the spread of the virus by partnering with 5 insurance companies and the Lagos State Government to contribute towards a… April 25, 2020 In "Sponsored"