Eleven people who tested positive for COVID-19 in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, have been discharged, the FCT Administration has announced. They were discharged on Monday night having satisfied all the necessary protocols. However, the Administration announced that it lost one patient on a day that it also recorded one new Covid-19 case. “We have one new case in the FCT and we are happy to announce that 11 people have been discharged. Unfortunately, we regret that one patient has died. May God be with the family of the deceased and protect all our front line workers”, the Administration said in a terse message from its Covid-19 Media Team. So far, 35 people have been discharged from the various isolation and treatment centres in the territory while three fatalities have been recorded. As of 11:10pm on Monday, the total number of confirmed cases in the territory stood at 89 while active cases stood at 51. Vanguard By Rasheed Sobowale The coronavirus pandemic has yet claimed another life in Lagos State as the state's commissioner for health, Professor Akin Abayomi announced on Sunday, "We lost a #COVID19 patient; a 36 year old Nigerian" Lagos State, the epicentre of the coronavirus (COVID-19) as at 11.20 a.m, 5th April,… April 5, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Omeiza Ajayi Fears of massive community transmission of the Novel Coronavirus has hit the nation's Federal Capital Territory, Abuja following the discovery of 12 positive cases in Mabushi, a local community in the heart of the city. On Saturday, 49 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Nigeria, with… April 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Omeiza Ajayi Seven patients at the COVID-19 isolation and treatment centre in the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital UATH have been discharged, bringing to 18 the total number of people discharged so far, Vanguard has learned. Vanguard learned that they were discharged late Tuesday having satisfied all the necessary protocols… April 15, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"