After many years of fans call for the reunion of popular boys band, One Direction, rumour of them coming back went overboard on Monday as Harry Styles, Niall Horan, Louis Tomlinson, and Liam Payne all refollowed Zayn Malik on Twitter. This recent move by the boys appear to fan could be a significant positive omen for their anticipation as there have been speculations the group was planning something special to mark their formation on July 23. According to DailyMail, Zayn profile on Google search has changed from “ex-member” to “vocals”. In addition, all five of the boys’ albums are now back on Apple Music – with the banner image changed to an old picture featuring Zayn – and their official website has been reactivated. However, Zayn Malik at the time of publication has not followed back his former group members. One Direction’s five albums, Up All Night (2011), Take Me Home (2012), Midnight Memories (2013), Four (2014), and Made in the A.M. (2015), topped charts in most major markets, with singles many fans still connect with till date such as “What Makes You Beautiful”, “Live While We’re Young”, “Best Song Ever”, “Story of My Life” and “Drag Me Down”. According to Billboard, One Direction (1D) is the only group to debut at Billboard’s No. 1 with their first four albums. Vanguard News Nigeria. Twitter on Thursday suspended the provocative rapper Azealia Banks after she went a step too far by launching racist attacks on former One Direction heartthrob Zayn May 12, 2016 In "Entertainment" Pop stars Ariana Grande and Nicki Minaj sparkled at the MTV Europe Music Awards on Sunday, held in the Scottish city of Glasgow for the first time. November 10, 2014 In "Showtime People" Kanye West's, explosive and very public embrace of Christianity has finally come to a head with anticipation building around his upcoming gospel album, "Jesus is King." Kanye Omari West's (his full name) is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, record producer, entrepreneur, and fashion designer, according to Wikipedia. But not all… September 29, 2019 In "Entertainment"