GOVERNOR Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has confirmed the third index case of the dreaded coronavirus pandemic in the State, urging Christians in the State to worship at home tomorrow (today). Okowa in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika said the sample of the case which was taken to Irrua Specialist Hospital in Edo, for testing returned as positive. He said: “Earlier today, a third case of the COVID-19 was confirmed in the state and the patient is already receiving attention in one of our facilities designated for that purpose. “I am pleased to report that the patient is in stable condition and is responding well to treatment from our team of medical professionals. “In consonance with the rules and according to international best practices as enunciated by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the state government urges Deltans, especially Christians to worship from home as the lockdown order is still in force. “We thank Deltans for their support so far and urge them to continue to obey relevant instructions as it has become apparent that the virus is spreading in the state,” he stated. “We will continue to partner the Federal Government on effective implementation of its regulations on measures to curtail further spread of the virus in our state and country”. Vanguard Urges Christians to worship at home tomorrow By Festus Ahon - Asaba Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has confirmed the third index case of the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic in the State, urging Christians in the State to worship at home tomorrow (today). Okowa on his verified Facebook handle, said:… April 11, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" ...says contact tracing has began By Festus Ahon ASABA - GOVERNOR Ifeanyi Okowa, has confirmed the death of the second COVID-19 case in the State. Okowa on his verified Facebook handle on Thursday evening in a post, said the deceased had underlying ailment. He said the deceased tested positive to… April 9, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Mr Olisa Ifeajika, Chief Press Secretary to Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta has donated sanitisers and other items to the people of his constituency, Illah, Oshimili North Local Government Area of the state. April 1, 2020 In "News"