PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has appealed to Nigerians to bear the pains of restriction of movement as a result of the ravaging COVID-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic, saying that the lockdown will last as long as necessary in order to contain the virus. President Buhari in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Saturday said that the defeat of the Coronavirus in Nigeria rested squarely in the hands Nigerians. Mallam Shehu in the statement did not mention where and what occasion the President made statements. Buhari in the statement said, “But at this darkest hour, it remains our duty to offer you the full and unvarnished truth: This is a global pandemic. 210 countries and territories across the globe are affected. We cannot expect others to come to our assistance. No one is coming to defeat this virus for us. “Instead, the defeat of the virus in our country will be in our hands, alone. We cannot wait for others. We can only depend on ourselves now. And so we must – and we will – end this outbreak ourselves as Nigerians, together”. President Buhari thanked Nigerians for their patience, resolve and strong determination to defeat the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak. He said, “We realize that today, there will be sons and daughters unable to visit their parents, and elders that are isolated from young ones. And there will be those who live day-to-day, eating as they earn, who face real and present suffering. “No elected government could ask more of the citizens of the country that elected them than today we ask of you. But we must ask you – once more – to observe restrictions on movement where they are in place, and follow the instructions of our scientists and medical advisers: stay home, wash your hands, save lives. “The freedoms we ask you to willingly forsake today will only last as long as our scientific advisers declare they are necessary. But they are essential – world over – to halt and defeat the spread of this virus. “For those who suffer most egregiously, the Government has announced multiple measures to assist: 70,000 tonnes of grain is being released from the National Strategic Grain Reserves for distribution to those in most need; distribution of small cash payments are also being made, and will continue to be made by the federal government in the states and local government areas. “We ask you to listen and follow public announcements via the mass media for instructions as to how to receive this government support – and learn of more public assistance in the coming days. “All that the Government is asking you to endure is because nowhere in the world today is there any known way of defeating this pandemic. There is no vaccine. And that means there are choices to be made: between continuing as usual, or accepting the restrictions even when they come with unintended consequences.” Vanguard Nigeria News By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja The Presidency has taken a swipe at the Nobel laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, over his comments on the 14-day lockdown ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari, saying that he is not an expert in that area. The Presidency told Prof. Soyinka that he lacked professional competence… April 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Abuja The Presidency yesterday took a swipe at the Nobel laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, over his comments on the 14-day lockdown ordered President Muhammadu Buhari, saying that he is not an expert in that area. The Presidency told Prof. Soyinka that he lacked professional competence to kick… April 1, 2020 In "News" The Presidency has enjoined Nigerians to trust information coming from scientists and medical specialists as regard issues concerning virus diseases, instead of listening to Professors of Literary writings. Malam Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, gave the advice while reacting to comments made… April 2, 2020 In "News"