The behind the scene face-off between Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and his Deputy, Agboola Ajayi, has taken a new and dangerous twist as a campaign video jingle announced Ajayi’s governorship ambition on the platform of the main opposition People’s Democratic Party, PDP. Already, some chieftains of the All Progressives Congress are mulling the impeachment of the deputy governor but were yet to convince the governor and the state party chairman, Ade Adetimehin. The governor and Adetimehin have asked the party leaders making the moves to apply the brakes in the overall interest of the APC in the state. Reports had it that Akeredolu and Ajayi have irreconcilable differences that have defied solution even with the intervention of Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi and other party chieftains within and outside the state. The campaign video jingle showed the deputy governor exchanging banters with leaders of the party and was powered by Agboola Ajayi Grassroot Network, AAGN and with the title “ ONDO 2020: Hon Agboola Ajayi for Governor.” However, the deputy governor has dissociated himself from the video jingle. In a statement, his Media Aide, Babatope Okeowo said: “The attention of the Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Hon Agboola Alfred Ajayi has been drawn to a purported video where a campaign jingle with Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) logo was aired on his behalf. “This is to let the general public know that this video, which was poorly done did not emanate from the Deputy Governor of Ondo State neither did it have his support. “Let it be made known that the Deputy Governor is a member of the All Progressives Congress and has not declared any governorship ambition. “Recall that a Whatsapp group titled: ‘Agboola Ajayi 4 Sure 2020’ was created last year by Omobone Tunde to champion the governorship ambition of the Deputy Governor. The man in question has denied having anything to do with the Whatsapp group. “The Deputy Governor has also said these characters who see blackmail and propaganda as legitimate tools would paste his governorship posters. “This is clearly the handiwork of some characters, who are bent on creating disharmony in the political space of Ondo State. “Once again, the Deputy Governor did not authorize the purported video or any poster that may emanate from these people.” Also, the state opposition Peoples Democratic Party in a swift statement by its  Director of Media and Publicity,  Zadok Akintoye denied that the deputy governor was not a member of their party. Akintoye said that  “  Our party wishes to inform the general public that while we remain  the viable platform for any qualified citizen to seek to contest for the post of Executive Governor of Ondo state, the incumbent Deputy Governor, Mr. Agboola Ajayi is currently not a member of the Peoples Democratic Party and so is not an aspirant on the platform of the PDP. “The general public is therefore advised to disregard the series of online posts, comments and posters alluding to Mr. Agboola Ajayi being an aspirant on the platform of the PDP. Akintoye added that “if and when the Deputy Governor informs our party of his desire to join us and to contest with other very eminently qualified members for the position of gubernatorial candidate, we shall inform the general public.” Vanguard News Nigeria. As governorship campaign video of deputy rents air Party leaders consider deputy’s impeachment Dayo Johnson - Akure The behind the scenes face between governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and his deputy Hon Agboola Ajayi took a new dimension as a campaign video jingle announced his governorship ambition on the… April 23, 2020 In "News" CAN the health of Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, the governor of Ondo state withstand the rigours of a second term in office?. This is the million dollar question agitating the minds of the people of the state ahead of the 2020 governorship election. November 16, 2019 In "News" Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, has sacked his aide, Mr Banji Adewumi for dereliction of duty. Mr Olusegun Ajiboye, the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, in a statement on Friday in Akure, said the Special Assistant on Youths and Students Affairs, Adewumi, was relieved of his… April 24, 2020 In "Politics"