The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), yesterday said that cyber criminals are taking advantage of the Coronavirus (COVID’19) pandemic to defraud Nigerian citizens. The apex bank, in a press statement signed by its Director Corporate Communications, Isaac Okoroafor, explained that some of the fraud tactics used are phishing campaigns, relief packages and impersonations.
According to the statement, the “cyber-criminals are taking advantage of the current COVID-19 pandemic to defraud citizens, steal sensitive information, or gain unauthorized access to computers or mobile devices using various techniques.” Further the statement explained: “This trend is not peculiar to Nigeria as there has been a rise in COVID-19-related cyber-criminal activities all over the world. Our priority is to ensure that Nigerian banking customers are aware of the ongoing trend to prevent them from falling victim to such cyber-crimes. “Some of the cyber-criminal activities using the COVID-19 pandemic are outlined below: Phishing campaigns: cyber-criminals send out emails claiming to be from health organizations such as the Nigerian Center for Disease Control (NCDC) or the World Health Organization (WHO). The email may contain a link which, if clicked, steals login credentials or other confidential information from the victim’s computer or mobile device. “Relief Packages: Cyber-criminals have also been sending messages via social media or emails asking people to click on links to register in order to get their COVID-19 relief packages from the Government or other organisations. They simply use this to get confidential information from unwary victims. Relief package scams also come in the form of phone calls asking people to provide their banking details to receive relief packages.
“Impersonation: Cyber-criminals place calls to individuals claiming to be staff of their banks and asking them to get mobile apps that would help them get through this pandemic period. Such mobile apps are however used to steal information from the victims’ mobile phones among other things. Criminals have also produced COVID-19 maps, which steal information in the background.” The apex bank, consequently gave some precautionary measures saying, “Beware of and verify emails or phone calls claiming to be from NCDC, WHO or Government, especially when such emails request your banking information or to click on a link. Visit official websites of relevant organizations for desired information; Avoid clicking on links or attachments in emails that claim to have more information regarding the COVID-19 pandemic; Avoid downloading mobile apps from untrusted sources; and  Obtain relief package or other information from trusted news media.” The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has cautioned Nigerians on activities of cybercriminals taking advantage of the current COVID-19 pandemic to defraud citizens. April 6, 2020 In "Business" ...Commercial sex workers, criminals affected ...Fraud and cybercrime expected to rise ...IGP places CP INTERPOL on red alert, alerts Nigerians to be vigilant By Evelyn Usman The predicament bedeviling the world at the moment is the Coronavirus, which has claimed thousands of lives , with many victims still battling between… April 2, 2020 In "Features" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) says the apex bank and other financial institutions will open for business in spite the two weeks lockdown declared by President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja, Lagos and Ogun states. Mr Isaac Okorafor, the CBN’s Director, Corporate Communications made this known in a statement in… March 30, 2020 In "News"