The World Bank Group says Coronavirus (COVID-19), is taking Sub-Saharan Africa towards its first recession in 25 Years. The bank stated this in a statement released on Thursday. It explained that growth in Sub-Saharan Africa had been significantly impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak, and was predicted to fall sharply from 2.4 per cent in 2019 to -2.1 to -5.1 per cent in 2020. The bank stated that it based its forecast on the latest Africa’s Pulse, the World Bank’s twice-yearly economic update  for the region. The statement quoted Hafez Ghanem, World Bank Vice President for Africa as saying “the COVID-19 pandemic is testing the limits of societies and economies across the world, and African countries are likely to be hit particularly hard. “We are rallying all possible resources to help countries meet people’s immediate health and survival needs, while also safeguarding livelihoods and jobs in the longer term. “This includes calling for a standstill on official bilateral debt service payments, which would free up funds for strengthening health systems to deal with COVID 19 and save lives. “Social safety nets to save livelihoods and help workers who lose jobs, support to small and medium enterprises, and food security.” According to Ghanem, the Pulse authors recommend that African policymakers should focus on saving lives and protecting livelihoods by strengthening the health systems and taking quick actions to minimise disruptions in food supply chains. The bank noted that the authors also recommended implementing social protection programmes, including cash transfers, food distribution and fee waivers, to support citizens, especially those working in the informal sector. The analysis shows that COVID-19 will cost the region between 37 billion dollars and 79 billion dollars in output losses for 2020 due to a combination of effects. “They include trade and value chain disruption, which impacts commodity exporters and countries with strong value chain participation; reduced foreign financial flows from remittances, tourism and foreign direct investment,” it stated. It further listed others as foreign aid, combined with capital flight; and through direct impacts on health systems, and disruptions caused by containment measures and the public response. “While most countries in the region have been affected in different degrees by the pandemic, real gross domestic product growth is projected to fall sharply, particularly in the region’s three largest economies like  Nigeria, Angola, and South Africa, as a result of persistently weak growth and investment. “In general, oil exporting-countries will also be hard-hit; while growth is also expected to weaken substantially in the two fastest growing areas, the West African Economic and Monetary Union and the East African Community, due to weak external demand, disruptions to supply chains and domestic production. “The region’s tourism sector is expected to contract sharply due to severe disruption to travel. “The COVID-19 crisis also has the potential to spark a food security crisis in Africa, with agricultural production potentially contracting between 2.6 per cent in an optimistic scenario, and up to seven per cent if there are trade blockages. “Food imports would decline substantially as much as 25 per cent, or as little as 13 per cent due to a combination of higher transaction costs and reduced domestic demand” the bank explained. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria.  The World Bank has forecasted that sub-Saharan Africa will be pushed into recession in 2020 with Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contracting by up to 5.1 percent due to the ravaging COVID-19 outbreak. The bank also predicted a sharp drop in the GDP of Nigeria, Angola, and South Africa, the region’s… April 10, 2020 In "Business" The World Bank warned, on Thursday, that sub-Saharan Africa could slip into its first recession in a quarter of century because of the coronavirus pandemic on the world's most impoverished continent. "We project that economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa will decline from 2.4 percent in 2019 to -2.1 to -5.1… April 9, 2020 In "News" Emma Ujah, Abuja Bureau Chief The COVID-19 pandemic will drive Sub-Saharan Africa into recession with -5% growth, this year, the World Bank has predicted. It would be the first regional recession in 25 Years, the bank said. The fall would be a sharp contrast from the 2.4% regional growth in… April 9, 2020 In "Finance"