World Health Organization has revealed that over 3,000 health workers have been infected with coronavirus globally while many died in the process of offering care to affected people. According to the Director-General of WHO, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that many nurses & midwives face extraordinary challenges in their work yet they all achieve incredible things. Speaking during the commemoration of International Year of the Nurse & the Midwife, Tedros called on countries with shortages of nurses to increase the number of nurses they graduate by an average of 8 per cent each year and to implement measures to improve the employment and retention of nurses in their health systems. “Every day, nurses are putting themselves at risk to alleviate suffering and save lives. Over 3,000 #healthworkers have been infected with #COVID19 and many have paid the ultimate price. “Although the number of nurses, globally, increased by 4.7million between 2013 & 2018, the world is still facing a global shortfall of 5.9 million nurses, especially in Africa, South East Asia, the Eastern Mediterranean & some parts of Latin America. Vanguard The number of coronavirus cases worldwide surged past 100,000 on Friday, as stock markets collapsed and the World Health Organization told all countries to make containment "their highest priority". A rash of European countries as well as Cameroon, Togo and Peru confirmed their first cases of the virus while the… March 6, 2020 In "Foreign" A Spanish nurse has contracted Ebola after treating two patients who died from the disease at a Madrid hospital, the government said Monday, in the first known case of transmission outside of Africa. October 6, 2014 In "Ebola Outbreak" England's chief nurse has paid tribute to two frontline nurses who died after testing positive for coronavirus, as she made an emotional plea for the public to stay at home this weekend despite a mini-heatwave due to sweep the country. Ruth May said it was vital the public remain in… April 4, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"