Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) is probing assets worth about N1. 68 billion allegedly linked to a Commissioner in Lagos State, Sunday Vanguard learnt last week. The probe was reportedly launched after the ICPC received a petition detailing assets allegedly linked to the Commissioner, a woman, in a remote area of the state. The petition, written by a group, Parrot Deed International Network, and dated March 2, 2020, was addressed to the ICPC Chairman. It is titled, ‘Petition against Commissioner for official corruption, unlawful enrichment and conversion of public fund for personal use’. The woman, according to the petition, served as Commissioner in two different ministries between 2015 and 2019 and serves in one of the strategic ministries under the current administration. The petition said she bagged her first degree in 2006. “Properties acquired between 2015 till date are humongous and we reasonably suspect that they were acquired through corrupt practices”, it added. The petition claimed that the Commissioner was a Director in two companies used to acquire the assets until 2019 when she withdrew and her children took over as Directors. The N1. 68 billion assets, as listed in the petition, include a hotel worth N900million, a shopping mall worth N450million, a pharmacy worth N150million and a fuel station estimated at N180million. Efforts to get the Commissioner’s own side of the story last week were unsuccessful as she did not pick phone calls. Messages sent to her phone were also not replied. Meanwhile, ICPC spokesperson, Mrs R. Adunmi Okoduwa, confirmed that the agency received the petition and was investigating the allegations. “Yes, we have a petition on the matter but it is still under investigation”, Okoduwa said in response to Sunday Vanguard message. A source close to the ICPC said the Commissioner may have case to answer under the ‘Presidential Executive Order No 6 of 2018 on the Preservation of Suspicious Assets Connected With Corruption’ if the allegations in the petition turned out to be true. Vanguard According to sources, the arrest of the senior Executive Officer (Administration) by the operatives of the ICPC signals the commencement of full scale investigations into the case, just as the Commission has set machinery in motion to arrest more officials of the Ministry so far fingered in the unwholesome act. August 31, 2009 In "News" The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) on Thursday said that it recovered N77.04 billion worth of stolen assets in 2019. Mrs Rasheedat Okoduwa, spokesperson for the commission disclosed this while briefing newsmen on the activities and achievements of the commission in the year under review. Okoduwa… February 6, 2020 In "News" Shina Abubakar - Osogbo Independent Corrupt Practice and other Related Offences (ICPC) has revealed that moral and ethical gap in Local Government administration nationwide is responsible for corruption at the grassroots level of governance. The Commission's Chairman, Professor Bolaji Owasanoye also disclosed that its investigation from various petitions across the… February 11, 2020 In "News"