Kaduna State achieved the highest number of results (nine) and got the highest share with N3. 960 billion, while Katsina and Benue got the lowest amount of N540 million each as Federal Government disbursed the sum of N43,416,000,000.00 ($120.6 million) to 24 states. The fund is through a performance-based grant under the World Bank-Assisted States Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS) Programme-for-Results. SFTAS is wholly-financed with a loan of $750 million from the International Development Association (IDA), a member of the World Bank Group. On the Eligibility Criteria (EC), the minister said that States had to meet in order to be eligible to receive any grants included: the online publication of the approved annual budget and audited financial statement for the previous year. The 24 states were said to have achieved: improved financial reporting and budget reliability; increased openness and citizens’ engagement in the budget process; improved cash management and reduced revenue leakages through the implementation of State Treasury Single Account (TSA); strengthened Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) collection; biometric registration and Bank Verification Number (BVN) used to reduce payroll fraud. The 24 beneficiary states who were: Abia, Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Delta, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Niger, Ondo, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Sokoto, Taraba and Yobe states. Vanguard Emma Ujah The Federal Government has disbursed the sum of N43,416,000,000.00 ($120.6 million) to 24 states of the federation through performance-based grants under the World Bank-Assisted States Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS) Programme-for-Results. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, disclosed this in a statement… April 29, 2020 In "Business" The Office of the Auditor-General for the Federation, OAuGF, Wednesday, signed a Letter of Understanding with the Federal Ministry of Finance Budget and National Planning for the commencement of the $750 million State Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability, SFTAS, programme. November 27, 2019 In "Business" Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, has inaugurated a 17-member National Steering Committee for the States Fiscal Transparency, Accountability, and Sustainability (SFTAS) Programme-For-Results. The minister inaugurated the committee on Tuesday in Abuja, charging members to consider the assignment as a call to national duty and ensure… March 17, 2020 In "News"