Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, has sacked his aide, Mr Banji Adewumi for dereliction of duty. Mr Olusegun Ajiboye, the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, in a statement on Friday in Akure, said the Special Assistant on Youths and Students Affairs, Adewumi, was relieved of his appointment because he abandoned his responsibilities. “It was recently discovered that Adewumi has abandoned the office and his responsibilities for some months now, and that he is no longer resident in the country. “Expectedly, his absence has made the office suffer serious neglect, which if left unattended to, may lead to incalculable damage in the relationship between the government and the students’ population,’’ he said. Ajiboye said that governor Akeredolu has approved the appointment of Mr Ogunyemi Ojo, as his new aide for the positon of the Special Assistant on Youths and Students’ Affairs. “The governor wishes the new appointee success in his job and urged him to see his assignment as a challenge to create a platform for robust relationship between the government and youths in the state,’’ he said. Meanwhile, the behind the scenes face between governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and his deputy Hon Agboola Ajayi took a new dimension as a campaign video jingle announced his governorship ambition on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, on Monday approved the appointment of Mr. Gani Mohammed as his Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on New Media. The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Segun Ajiboye, disclosed this in a statement in Akure, the state capital. Ajiboye said Akeredolu also approved the appointment… September 23, 2019 In "News" An aide to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has dismissed rumour of uneasy calm in the state cabinet, stating that the Governor's wife and children are not involved in government and contract execution in the state. December 4, 2018 In "News" Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State on Wednesday approved the appointment of Mrs Margaret Atere as his Senior Special Assistant on Women Affairs. November 13, 2019 In "News"