Plateau State government has solicited the understanding of the vulnerable expecting some palliatives during this challenging time as the government said it is still awaiting the release of items for distribution from the federal government. The State Deputy Governor, Professor Sonni Tyoden who chairs the State government COVID-19 palliative committee pleaded with citizens to be patient as the State is doing its best to ensure all concerned groups get the palliatives due to them. It would be recalled that the State Governor, Simon Lalong had constituted the Committee last week and ordered immediate distribution of palliative to the vulnerable in the society. Speaking shortly after the Committee’s inaugural sitting at the Government House, Jos, Professor Tyoden said that Committee members, drawn from all relevant segments of the society have identified how the assignment would be carried out smoothly as modality for carrying out the exercise would involving even local government Councilors and Ward Heads in the hinterlands. The Committee he added has been separated into four groups which would engage in procurement, donations, transportation and distribution and though the State has made some provisions, the items are not enough hence, “We are waiting for what is coming from the federal government so that we can put everything together and make it go round.” He identified those who will benefit from the expected palliatives to included, “orphans, widows, people living with disability and the aged” and stressed, “those on salaries from government MDAs and beneficiaries of the federal government Social Investment Programme, SIP will not be included.” Vanguard Following the reported index cases of the ravaging coronavirus, COVID-19, in Lagos and Ogun states which has now crept into virtually all the states of the federation, President Muhammadu Buhari took the lead by announcing a lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and Federal Capital Territory as part of measures to curtail… April 16, 2020 In "News" The Commissioner for Information in Delta State, Mr. Charles Aniagwu has said that the distribution of the palliatives would not be on political considerations. April 9, 2020 In "News" GOVERNOR Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has warned the committee members and community leaders against segregation while distributing palliatives to people of the state following the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in the state. April 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"