The number of coronavirus cases in Malaysia is expected to peak in mid-April and there are signs of a flattening of the infection curve, the World Health Organization said on Thursday. Malaysia has the highest number of known infections in Southeast Asia with 2,908 confirmed cases. It has imposed travel and movement curbs to contain the spread of the virus. “Based on available data, the WHO Country Office has projected that Malaysia will see a peak in hospitalised cases in mid-April,” Ying-Ru Lo, the WHO’s head of mission and representative to Malaysia, Brunei, and Singapore told Reuters in emailed comments. The number of critically ill patients is estimated to reach the peak within the next week, she said, adding that the WHO projections could change. “There are initial signs of flattening of the curve, but this could bounce back if control measures are lifted and if people don’t continue to take protective measures,” Lo said. Lo added that data on new infections so far and additional surveillance measures did not suggest widespread community transmission in the country. Currently, there are 102 coronavirus patients in intensive care across Malaysia. There have been a total of 45 deaths. Malaysia’s health ministry on Wednesday said the rate of new infections appeared to be slowing amid the movement restrictions. Malaysia has ramped up its diagnostic testing capacity in recent days, testing over 7,000 a day from last week’s 3,500. Interactive graphic tracking global spread of coronavirus: open tmsnrt.rs/3aIRuz7 in an external browser. vanguard The global death toll from the coronavirus pandemic has passed 25,000, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. March 28, 2020 In "News" Malaysia's king and queen are under quarantine after seven palace staff members tested positive for coronavirus. King Sultan Abdullah Sultan Ahmad Shah and his wife Tunku Azizah Aminah Maimunah Iskandariah have both tested negative for the infection but will isolate for 14 days out of an abundance of caution the… March 26, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The growth in coronavirus cases in hard-hit Spain appears to be slowing, the country's foreign minister has told the BBC. Another 6,400 cases were confirmed on Monday, the lowest increase in new cases for a week. The total of deaths reached 7,340 after 812 new fatalities. It comes as a… March 30, 2020 In "News"