A 44-year-old man, Chinomso Okonkwo, has been arrested by the Imo State Police Command, for allegedly defiling his 14-year-old daughter, Blessing Okonkwo. According to the state Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Orlando Ikeokwu, yesterday in Owerri, the man has confessed to the crime. When Vanguard inquired from the police to have the details of the address of the suspect, the police said that the information they have given out was what they could provide at the moment. In the police’ own investigation, that Okonkwo has been inviting his friends to his residence for his friends to take sexual advantage of his daughter, Blessing. However, the police have said that the suspect is currently in their custody and that full investigation has commenced into the matter. The police briefly said: “On 13/4/2020 at about 11:40 am, based on credible information, operatives of Orji Divisional hqtrs arrested one Chinomso Okonkwo ‘Male’ 44 Years old, for defiling his own daughter Blessing Okonkwo, female, 15 years old. The suspect has however confessed to the crime. “It is noteworthy, that it wasn’t the first time this is happening, and that he normally invites his friends who come to his house to have canal knowledge of his own daughter. He has been detained, while investigation into the incident has commenced.” Vanguard IN 1996, the word Otokoto made a spectacular entry into the lexicon of Nigeria’s public discourse. It emanated from the dark days of ritual killings by a section of the underworld in Owerri, the capital of Imo State. It took the murder of one Master Okonkwo by ritual killers for… February 15, 2012 In "Crime Alert" Owerri—three suspected bombers arrested by the Army, during the just concluded Governorship/House of Assembly elections in Imo State have been handed over to the state police command. April 8, 2019 In "News" One Chiamaka Ukeje, female, 22-year-old from Umuduru Isiala Mbano Local Government Area, of Imo state, along side three others were paraded yesterday, by the Imo police command, for stealing and selling one Chinagorom Ndukwe, five year old baby, to the tune of four hundred thousand naira. March 1, 2018 In "Crime Guard"