In view of the current trend and successes recorded in the confirmed cases of Coronavirus, COVID-19 pandemic in the state, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has expressed optimism that only if people are determined to continue fighting in unity, the imported deadly disease will be defeated soon and all will come out victorious as always. This came as Sanwo-Olu commended the spirit and level of compliance by residents on the first day of the 14-day restriction of movement ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari in a bid to stop the Coronavirus pandemic in the state in particular and the country in general. The governor made the remarks, in a statement, late Tuesday evening, which bordered on his assessment of day one on the restriction directive, as well as health conditions of COVID-19 patients in the state. The statement, read: “Lagosians experienced today (Tuesday) the beginning of the 14-day restriction of movement ordered by President Buhari in a bid to stop the Coronavirus pandemic. “I would like to note the high level of our people’s compliance with this presidential directive. It has shown that we realise the enormity of the challenge that we are facing and the choice that we have made – fighting to stave off a massive attack of COVID-19 and staying alive to reclaim our life that has been disrupted by this unseen enemy. “The restriction, I would like to remind us, is to contain the community spreading of this disease by enlisting everybody in the fight and ensuring that many more do not contract it. “It is on this note that I would like to warn those who may wish to breach the restriction that their action is against the Public Health interest of all Lagosians. “I have no doubt that if we continue to fight in unity, COVID-19 will be defeated and we will come out victorious as we always do.” Commenting on the medical front, Sanwo-Olu, continued, “I have been informed that all our COVID 19 patients are stable. Five of them were discharged on Monday and – by the grace of The Almighty- God, more will soon be out of hospital. “Our medical staff -exceptional men and women all – are doing their all to ensure that the patients do well, regain their health and return home to their families. “We will be doing a lot to encourage them and lighten their burden by staying indoors. “Only those rendering essential services, who must be well identified; are allowed to go out when necessary.” Also speaking on stimulus package of his administration as part of palliative measures for the lockdown in the state, the governor, added, “Our Welfare Package remains on course. As I have often said, those at the bottom of the economic ladder, the underprivileged and the most vulnerable among us, will not be left to fend for themselves at this difficult time. He added, “Our Relief Package, which is to reach about 200,000 households in the first instance, has continued. Parts of the following local governments are being covered: Amuwo Odofin, Epe, Ikeja, Badagry, Ibeju – Lekki, Agege,Oshodi-Isolo, Apapa and Lagos Mainland. Others will soon be reached.” Sanwo-Olu, also expressed appreciation to those worthy “Lagosians,” who said have demonstrated the true spirit of “A Greater Lagos” by coming forward to help at the present difficult time. “I salute our law enforcement agents who have been working tirelessly to ensure that the presidential directive is enforced. I enjoin them to continue in that spirit. “They should be firm but courteous in discharging their responsibilities,” the governor stated. Vanguard News Nigeria. ..Orders police, security agencies to enforce ban on public gatherings By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has cautioned residents against consumption of chloroquine as anti- COVID-19 drug, forthwith, saying, some hospitals in state have started recording patients suffering from chloroquine poisoning. Also, in furtherance to enforce the… March 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Sunday ordered the state civil servants to stay at home for 14 days as part of the precautionary measures put in place by the state government to halt the spread of the Coronavirus in the country. The governor, who stated this at a press… March 22, 2020 In "News" As part of precautionary measures to stop the spread of pandemic Coronavirus, COVID-19, Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has ordered the closure of all public and private schools from Monday, 23rd March 2020. March 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"