Eight days after the Nigerian government welcomed a team of Chinese medics in spite of protests from health professionals, the government of Ethiopia on Thursday announced the arrival of the Chinese “anti-pandemic medical expert team” to aid its fight against the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Announcing the arrival of the team, Ethiopia Ministry of Health stated; “A Chinese anti-pandemic medical expert team, dispatched by the government of China has arrived in the #Ethiopian Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa this afternoon #COVID19Ethiopia”. Lia Tadesse, the Minister of Health, also announcing the development, posted on her Twitter account, “The Chinese Anti-pandemic Medical Expert Team to Ethiopia arrived today (Thursday) to share their ample experience in prevention and control of COVID-19 and to deliver urgently needed medical supplies. My heartfelt gratitude for the solidarity witnessed at this crucial time.” Ethiopia on Wednesday also received a donation of medical supplies from the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Announcing the receipt of the donation, Tadesse posted; “I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the government of UAE for the generous donation of medical supplies that are vital at this critical time and for the continued support to our country in the fight against.” Ethiopia, as of April 17, has recorded 96 confirmed cases of the coronavirus with three fatalities (deaths). Vanguard News Nigeria. The Consul General of the Consulate General of the Peoples’ Republic of China in Nigeria, Chu Maoming, says his country is ever ready to work with Nigeria to defeat coronavirus which, to him, answers the question behind the arrival of the Chinese medical team in Nigeria and much more. April 12, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" A group of Chinese medics on Wednesday arrived in Nigeria to help fight the coronavirus pandemic, despite angry criticism from health workers in the country. The 15-medics team were greeted by senior officials on the tarmac at Abuja airport after flying in on a month-long deployment with a planeload of… April 8, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Federal Government has slammed critics of an offer by a foreign company, Chinese Civil Engineering Construction Company CCECC to import an 18-member Chinese team of medical experts including doctors, nurses and public health advisers to share experiences with their local counterparts on the management of the Novel Coronavirus Covid-19… April 6, 2020 In "News"