As part of its relentless contribution and support towards battling the spread of the dreaded Coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria, Hypo, makers of Nigeria’s beloved bleach has once again donated products to the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for the sanitization of isolation centers and other public places across the nation. Donation exercise took place at the Headquarters of NCDC in Abuja, when officials took delivery of the 200 cartons of 3.5 litres size of Hypo bleach. According to Ms. Omotunde Bamigbaiye, Brand Manager Hypo Bleach in a statement which confirmed the donation of Hypo products to the NCDC team in Abuja said “the need to further support the government in the area of products support to effectively disinfect isolation centers and other public places became necessary as the spread numbers keep rising while deeply penetrating more states across the country. We have donated 200 cartons of Hypo’s biggest SKU (3.5litres keg), equivalent of 2800 litres of bleach Although, Hypo have being in partnership with NCDC right from the outset of the campaign against Coronavirus, supporting their public enlightenment programs while promoting quality hygiene practice both on & off the media space, just so Nigerians will be adequately informed about the dangers of the virus lurking around the environment as well as preventive measures as to reduce the spread. Similarly, couple of weeks back, before the temporal closure of the International Airports by the Federal Government to prevent further infiltration of the virus into the country, an official donation of 100 cartons of Hypo were made to the management of the Federal Airport Authority Nigeria in Lagos to disinfect the Airport environment to ensure hygiene safety measure for both staff and travelers was sustained. It should also be of note that common household disinfectants, like a diluted bleach solution, can deactivate coronaviruses on surfaces, and this was carefully corroborated on the NCDC website as part of the precautions Nigerians adopt to keep the virus at bay amongst other points. “It is our belief that our humble contributions will support the overall effort in combating the pandemic as we continue to hope life returns to normalcy as soon as possible.” While acknowledging receipt of the products on behalf of NCDC, Dr. Priscilla Ibekwe, Deputy Director, Special Duties, Nigerian Centre for Disease Control, commended the efforts of Hypo Homecare Products Ltd for their continued support towards the fight to effectively curtail the spread of Coronavirus in Nigeria. The Hypo Hygiene Products Limited, Lagos, says it has partnered with the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to contain the spread of Coronavirus disease in Nigeria by donating 100 cartons of Hypo bleach. March 7, 2020 In "News" 25 March 2020. Following real time updates and social advice from NCDC and Lagos state ministry of health to observe self-isolation and hygiene precautions to curtail the increasing cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria, Hypo homecare products limited, makers of the Nigerian most preferred bleach has likewise on a social responsibility… April 1, 2020 In "Sponsored" In line with its vision to promote the health and wellbeing of Nigerian families, MultiPro Enterprises Limited, makers of Hypo Super Bleach, in partnership with the Lagos State Ministry of Health, to facilitate the first round of the 2012 Maternal Newborn and Child Health, MNCH, Week. July 3, 2012 In "Health"