Day two of the lockdown in Delta state witnessed a sad scene in Ugbwuwangwe axis  of Warri south local government as a soldier standing at Ubeji round about allegedly chased a 28 year old Joseph Pessu from Ubeji down to Ugbwuwangwe , a distance of about two kilometers and allegedly shot him at close range three times. Father of the late Joseph, Mr Monday Pessu in an exclusive chat with the Vanguard said he believed the soldier was commissioned to murder his son, urging the appropriate authorities to prevail  on the soldier to disclose who allegedly recruited him to murder his son . The late Pessu said he is a widower with seven children,  recalling that   his wife, the late Joseph’s  mother was shot dead during a rerun election in Delta State in 2010  while she was opening her store around Bazaunu area of Warri. What really happened sir? I am Mr Monday Kpesu, the father of late Joseph Kpesu. I was surprised to hear what happened to my son on the second day of this lockdown in Warri.     He went to Ubeji and a soldier  stopped him. The boy who was in the vehicle with my son,  said he stopped.  And the soldier talked with him.  My son drove off, and the soldier opened fire on the vehicle , the bullet touched my son at the waist. My son still managed the vehicle to get to Uguwangwe. The soldier  halted another vehicle with the force of his gun, entered it and told the driver to chase my son. He pursued my son to Ugbwuwangwe and as my son was coming down from his  vehicle the soldier got close to him and shot him three times and he died on the spot. I am a widower. The late Joseph has two children.  By the end of this month he would have been 28  years.  I want justice . They said he drove a vehicle without number plate. Nothing of such . The vehicle had number. People towed the vehicle to the station.  But even  if a vehicle had no number is that enough reason to kill anybody . We say Covid -19, did they ask him to kill anybody? They said he did not stop when they stopped him. Who said so?  He stopped. There is something behind it.  Somebody asked the soldier to go and kill my son.  If not how can somebody  leave  Ubeji and you got another vehicle to chase him to Ugbwuwangwe , a distance of about two kilometers, you  hijacked another vehicle to chase him.  When he shot him, he stood to ensure my son died before he left. He came alone, not that he was with any other soldier. I heard he has been arrested. Your appeal I want the Nigerian army to give me justice.  When a military Commander  asked him what the man did to him , he said he did not do anything to him, that my son  wanted to hit him with his vehicle  but did not hit him. How was Joseph to you? He was a lovely boy. People are talking well about him. He was not a thief. He was cool-headed . Investigation is on, we have restored peace  – Council Chairman I am Dr Mike Tidi, the local government Chairman, Warri South Local Government Area.   Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has ordered thorough investigation into the matter. While this is ongoing, there has been peace after the incident.  We mobilized with security men to restore peace. I have visited the father of the deceased. It is painful.   The state governor is also pained by the sad development. I want to appreciate the youth for listening to our appeal for peace in the area.  Let us all also  comply with government directive  to remain indoors this period to fight spread of covid – 19. It is not true that youths killed anybody— Chief Sonny Popo I am  Chief Sunny Popo, a community leader .The situation is under control. The rumour that they killed people is not true. The story that a naval officer died, we have not heard about it.  There is an army officer threatening on video that he is coming to Warri to rape all women in Warri for killing an officer. Nobody killed any  officer. There was assault on two naval men when the thing happened  but I am not aware any of them  died.   The youths are  not planning to revenge. Ignore social media reports that there is fire in Warri — Warri Area Commander I am the Warri   Area Commander, Assistant Commissioner of Police , Muhammed Garba. There are rumours spreading that the whole of Ugbuwangwe and Ogunu is on fire. But as you can see the area  is peaceful . Everybody complied with  the rule. Saturday Vanguard gathered that the soldier was alone at the Ubeji roundabout.  Military sources said  he had been transferred to Benin but they could not understand why he was still around there and what he was doing at the roundabout alone Vanguard By Francis Efe, Warri There was pandemonium at ogunu community in Warri South Council Area of Delta State as a soldier on Thursday allegedly shot dead a middle-aged man identified as Mr Joseph Pessu, two days into the lockdown order by the Delta government. The deceased was allegedly killed by… April 2, 2020 In "News" APPREHENSION, yesterday enveloped Warri, Delta State, following the killing of a 28 years old man, Joseph Pessu, by a soldier, who was part of a team enforcing  the 'sit at home' order by the state government as part of efforts to contain the spread of the dreaded coronavirus pandemic in… April 3, 2020 In "News" Perez Brisibe, Ughelli Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, has condemned the reported killing of a man in Warri by soldiers implanting the lockdown order by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State. The victim, Joseph Pessu, was allegedly killed at the Ubeji community while attempting to escape… April 2, 2020 In "News"