The United States announced on Friday a 10 million-dollar reward for “any information on the activities, networks and associates” of Muhammad Kawtharani, a Lebanese Hezbollah commander accused of playing a key role in coordinating pro-Iran groups in Iraq. Kawtharani is a senior official of the Lebanese Shiite movement in Iraq, “and has taken over some of the political coordination of Iran-aligned paramilitary groups formerly organized by Qassim Suleimani,” the US State Department said in a statement. Suleimani, a powerful leader of the Revolutionary Guard, the ideological army of Tehran, was killed in early January in an American strike targeting him in Baghdad. According to Washington, Kawtharani, already on the US blacklist for terrorism since 2013, “facilitates the actions of groups operating outside the control of the Government of Iraq that have violently suppressed protests” or “attacked foreign diplomatic missions”. The State Department, which considers Hezbollah a terrorist organization, added that the official promoted the interests of the group in Iraq by participating in “training, funding, political and logistical support” of Shiite insurgent groups. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. United States (US) airstrikes against a pro-Iran group in Iraq killed at least 25 fighters, a paramilitary umbrella said Monday, triggering anger in a country caught up in mounting tensions between Tehran and Washington. The attacks on Sunday night saw US planes hit several bases belonging to the Hezbollah brigades,… December 30, 2019 In "Foreign" Israel’s prime minister defended a U.S. decision to launch an air strike on Friday that killed powerful Iranian commander Qassem Soleimani and the Israeli military was put on high alert, after Iran threatened revenge. Senior defense officials in Israel, America’s closest ally in the Middle East and Iran’s top regional… January 3, 2020 In "Foreign" Former U.S. Secretary of Defence Robert Gates on Tuesday warned that there might be an all-out war between Israel and Lebanon’s Iran-backed Shiite militia Hezbollah in 2018 following the recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital by U.S. President Donald Trump. December 12, 2017 In "News"