Retired track star Usain Bolt showed he’s still a few steps ahead when he posted an AFP picture of him outstripping his rivals at the Beijing Olympics with the cheeky caption: “social distancing”. Bolt’s post, featuring a picture by AFP photographer Nicolas Asfouri of the 2008 Olympics 100m final, blew up on social media, drawing more than half a million likes and 90,000 retweets. It showed the Jamaican crossing the finish line at the Bird’s Nest stadium in a then-world record time of 9.69sec, glancing round from lane four as his despairing competitors trail two paces behind. “Savage”, commented one Twitter user, while New York Times journalist Christopher Clarey posted another picture of Bolt out in front on his own, captioned “self isolation”. Social Distancing #HappyEaster pic.twitter.com/lDCAsxkOAw — Usain St. Leo Bolt (@usainbolt) April 13, 2020 Bolt’s chest-thumping celebration in Beijing added to a legend that grew further when he won the 200m in another world-record time. He retired in 2017 with eight Olympic gold medals and the current 100m mark of 9.58sec, set in 2009. Bolt, 33, has been encouraging Jamaicans to self-isolate during the coronavirus pandemic, posting videos of himself exercising at home and juggling footballs with a friend. He also helped promote a major fundraiser, Telethon Jamaica. After retiring from athletics, Bolt, a Manchester United fan, attempted to launch a career in football, and had a trial with Australia’s Central Coast Mariners before contract talks failed. [AFP] VANGUARD Usain Bolt, a six-time Olympic gold medallist revealed he would retire from athletics after the 2017 International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) World Championships in London. According to the Daily Mail, an online news portal, the Jamaican 28-year-old decided on Feb. 14 to retire in 2017 after the World Championships,… February 15, 2015 In "Sports" It’s the kind of picture a sports photographer can only ever dream of: The sprinter Usain Bolt clinching gold as a lightning bolt illuminates the stormy skies above. August 13, 2013 In "Sports" Olympic legend Usain Bolt had an open invitation to train with German Bundesliga power Borussia Dortmund for a year, and he is finally going to take the club up on the offer. January 8, 2018 In "News"