Contrary to speculations in some quarters that the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, LUTH, has been shut down following the death of a COVID-19 patient, the management of the hospital Saturday debunked the rumour, saying “the hospital is open and working” Debunking the rumour in a telephone chat  with Vanguard, the institution’s Chairman Medical Advisory Committee, CMAC, Professor Wasiu  Adeyemo, described the news as fake. ”It is fake news, ” he stated. “There is nothing like that. We have just few patients in the wards because we have discharged patients in order to collapse some of the wards.  Some of our staff will not be able to come to work because of the transportation and lockdown.  We just have to ration the patients according to the number of staff that we have. “I just left the hospital premises now. Staff are on ground seeing patients. Operations are being done though we have reduced number of patients
in the wards.  Our Accident and Emergency, A&E, is open and running,” he added. It could be recalled that a COVID-19 patient who had hidden his travel and medical history had died at the hospital on Friday. vanguard By Chioma Obinna Contrary to speculations in some quarters that the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, LUTH, has been shut down following the death of a COVID-19 patient, the management of the hospital Saturday debunked the rumour, saying "the hospital is open and working”. Debunking the rumour in a telephone chat… April 4, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Chairman of Medical Advisory Committee (CMAC), Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi-Araba, Prof. Wasiu Adeyemo, said on Tuesday the Lassa fever index patient has been discharged from the isolation ward. Adeyemo said in a statement the index patient had fully recovered from the disease. He said: “The index Lassa… March 10, 2020 In "News" By Chioma Obinna A suspected COVID-19 patient yesterday died at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, LUTH, Idiaraba Lagos.  Sources at the hospital who disclosed this to Vanguard said the patient was suspected to have died of Coronavirus. The sources told Vanguard that the said patient hid his medical and travel… April 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"