Ijaw Youth Council, IYC, has accused the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs,  of allegedly sidelining the Niger Delta region in its palliative to cushion the effect of COVID 19, demanding for attention for the region. Secretary transition committee of the body and Chairman IYC Western zone, Comrade Frank Akiefa enjoined President Muhammadu Buhari to prevail on the Minister for Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management to extend substantial palliative from the Ministry to the region, adding he lamented the degree of poverty in the region. “The effect of the Covid-19 pandemic is felt on every household and not only a section of this country that’s been  affected and it has shown clearly that you created the Ministry of  Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management for the North alone.”, but he also said “Mr. President, the Ijaw Youth Council(IYC) and the good people of the Niger Delta, whose Oil and Gas that have been used to feed and develop this country for decades deserve fair treatment from you in all ramifications.”, he added. “There are millions of people living in abject poverty, whose farmlands/rivers have been polluted by the oil spill in the Niger Delta region that needs Palliative from the federal government. We are calling on Mr. President to urgently direct the Honourable Minister for Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management to look into the Niger Delta people.”, he said. vanguard By Dapo Akinrefon Chairman of the Ijaw Youths Council, IYC, central zone, Mr Kennedy Olorogun has raised an alarm over a move by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, to have allegedly coerce Ijaw leaders to endorse the interim management committee of the Niger Delta Development Commission,… November 5, 2019 In "News" IJAW Youth Council, IYC, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint a young person as substantive Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, stressing that there will be a disconnect between the youth and an older person appointed as Managing Director. April 29, 2019 In "News" *Accuse Akpabio of undue interference By Perez Brisibe REACTIONS have continued to trail the Mrs. Joy Ghene Nuieh led 3-man steering committee of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC with the Ijaw Youth Council, IYC, Oro Youth Movement, OYOM and the Vanguard for Transparent Leadership and Democratic, VATLAD describing the… October 30, 2019 In "News"