Chairman Warri south local government area, Dr Michael Tidi   has lauded people of the local government for their compliance to the sit at home order of the state government, saying  governor Ifeanyi Okowa had graciously sent food items to  vulnerable, aged and indigents in various communities in the local government. Tidi who took delivery of the items in two trailer loads said  the member representing Warri Federal constituency, Chief Thomas Ereyitomi, Senator representing Delta south, Senator James Manager also sent in cash sums to acquire more food items to add to what the state government sent. The council boss said some of the items sent by the state government included bags of beans, rice , noddle , adding that they would get to the targeted persons in the various communities. “ We took delivery of the  food items from Asaba today. They are for the vulnerable, elderly, indigent ones in our various communities.  We thank the governor for this. They will be distributed across party lines.  The distribution has nothing to do with political parties. Its is for the people. “, he said. “ Some of the things as you can see in the trailers include bags of rice, beans, , indomie. “, he added. Continuing, the council boss recalled that the local government had also given out to the various communities during the first phase of the lockdown. He further commended the people for their commitment to wipe out coronavirus in the state, adding that they should continue to maintain physical distancing, remain at home for the meantime. Vanguard By Jimitota Onoyume - Warri Chairman Warri South local government area, Dr. Michael Tidi has ordered the closure of the popular Igbudu market in the local government as part of measures to control the spread of the dreaded coronavirus aka Covid 19. The  Chairman, Dr. Tidi said the closure took… March 30, 2020 In "News" CHAIRMAN of Warri South Local Government Area, LGA, Dr. Michael Tidi, has enjoined companies doing business in the  LGA to contribute meaningfully to the growth and development of the area. October 17, 2018 In "News" THE first Warri Economic Summit with the theme: Warri Rising, ended on a promising note with various speakers urging ethnic groups in Warri to bury their sentiments for the common good of the oil- rich city. May 23, 2018 In "News"