Football will be totally different when it eventually resumes after the coronavirus outbreak, the head of global body FIFA Gianni Infantino said on Thursday. “Football will come back, and when it does, we’ll celebrate coming out of a nightmare together,” he told the Italian news agency ANSA in an interview. “There is one lesson, however, that both you and me must have understood: the football that will come after the virus will be totally different…(more) inclusive, more social and more supportive, connected to the individual countries and at the same time more global, less arrogant and more welcoming.” He added: “We will be better, more human and more attentive to true values.” Last week, Infantino told Italian sports media outfit Gazzetta Dello Sport that it was the right time to take a step back. He added that it was time to reform a sport where fixture lists have become overloaded and financial resources increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few elite clubs. Infantino suggested there could be “fewer, but more interesting tournaments. Maybe fewer squads, but more balance. Fewer, but more competitive, matches to safeguard the health of the players.” Later on Thursday, Infantino told the annual congress of the South American Football Confederation (CONMEBOL) that “it is our responsibility as football administrators, first of all, to ensure football can survive and secondly move forward once again.” “On the international match calendar we have to look for global solutions to tackle these global problems in a spirit of cooperation and solidarity,” Infantino said in a video link from Zurich. “Everyone has different interests, but we must talk and put on the table topics that we perhaps didn’t discuss in the past.’’ Vanguard Gianni Infantino slammed "fake news" surrounding FIFA in an impassioned speech to the annual congress of world football's governing body in Bahrain on Thursday. May 11, 2017 In "Sports" FIFA boss Gianni Infantino admitted Thursday that "nobody knows" when football can resume around the world, and that when it returned it was "going to be different". He said that because of the deadly coronavirus pandemic, for once football "is not the most important thing". "We all wish that we… April 2, 2020 In "Sports" FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, on Friday, strongly rejected criticism of the global ruling body’s handling of the sexual abuse scandal in Afghanistan football from the coach of the country’s women’s team. July 5, 2019 In "News"