 Paul McCartney’s handwritten lyrics to ‘The Beatles’ hit song “Hey Jude” sold for $910,000 on Friday, nine times its original estimate, auction house Julien’s Auctions said. A vintage bass drumhead with The Beatles’ logo that was used during the English band’s first North American tour in 1964 was another top item, selling for $200,000. The items were among more than 250 items of Beatles memorabilia offered in an online auction by Julien’s Auctions to mark the 50th anniversary of the band’s breakup. A drawing by John Lennon and wife Yoko Ono called Bagism, a term they coined to satirise stereotyping, sold for $93,750, while an ashtray used by the Fab Four’s drummer Ringo Starr at the Abbey Road recording studios in London fetched $32,500. The wooden stage of the small Liverpool venue where the band performed before they rocketed to fame went for $25,600. Before the sale, Julien’s Auctions music specialist Jason Watkins had described McCartney’s hastily scribbled notes for a 1968 studio recording of “Hey Jude” as very rare and valuable. “It’s obviously a very iconic song that everyone’s familiar with,” said Watkins. “These handwritten lyrics were used in the studio as a guide when they were recording it.” The sale had been due to take place online and at the Hard Rock Cafe in Times Square, New York, but it was made online-only due to the coronavirus pandemic, the auction house said. Vanguard A pair of John Lennon's trademark round sunglasses are going up for auction along with a parking ticket given to Beatles drummer Ringo Starr -- items kept for half a century by a former driver for the band. Alan Herring, who worked as a chauffeur for Starr and bandmate George… November 30, 2019 In "Entertainment" The skin-tight dress Marilyn Monroe wore for her sultry rendition of “Happy Birthday’’ before then U.S. President John Kennedy at a 1962 gala was sold on Thursday for 4.8 million dollars at an auction in Los Angeles. November 18, 2016 In "News" Michael Jackson’s black “Bad” jacket that the singer wore on his first solo tour is going up for auction in November and could fetch up to one hundred thousand dollars. October 26, 2018 In "News"