Governor of Bauchi state, Bala Mohammed has assured citizens of the state of his readiness to provide them with relief materials to cushion the hardship that might come with the coronavirus disease and the lockdown order. Governor Mohammed spoke from his isolation in a short video recorded in Hausa language and released on Wednesday assured residents of the state and Nigerians of his companionship, even though not physically. “My dear people of Bauchi state and people of Nigeria, I thank you most profoundly. Most importantly, I thank Allah who has spared my life till this moment. I want to also everyone who has shown me unprecedented sympathy. I have no symptoms of the virus and have remained very stable, but I will continue to be in isolation to comply with the advice of physicians. “Our task force team in the state, led by Baba Tela is doing good. So far so good, I am discussing with my colleagues (other governors) to see how we can overcome this disease. I must thank our President for his efforts too. I appreciate your prayers and support,” he said. Gov Mohammed further promised to reflect and find solutions to the problems affecting his people when he comes out of isolation. Vanguard Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, on Friday  assured the people of the state that he is very sound and in good spirit despite testing positive for Coronavirus. The governor stated this in a goodwill message issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr Mukhtar Gidado, in Bauchi. The governor… March 27, 2020 In "News" The Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, on Wednesday implored his colleagues to go into self-isolation immediately following the growing cases of Coronavirus infection in the country The duo of President’s Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari and Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, tested positive to the disease on Tuesday and had… March 25, 2020 In "News" Following his close contact with the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Muhammed and Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, who have both tested positive for coronavirus, the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has gone into self-isolation. In a statement, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and… March 25, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"