Tennis world number three Dominic Thiem expressed scepticism Sunday about plans to set up a fund to help lower-ranked players struggling because of the shutdown of the sport. In an interview with Austria’s Krone newspaper, Thiem was asked about last week’s announcement by world number one Novak Djokovic that he was working with Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal to organise aid for players struggling with the paralysis of the game due to the coronavirus pandemic. “Quite honestly I have to say that no tennis player will be fighting to survive, even those who are much lower-ranked,” Thiem said, adding: “None of them are going to starve.” He said that his experience competing on the sport’s Futures circuit had shown him that there are “many, many players who don’t put the sport above everything else and don’t live in a professional manner.” “I wouldn’t really see why I should give such players money,” he went on. “I would rather give money to people or organisations that really need it,” Thiem said. The plan proposed by Djokovic would involve raising between $3 million (2.75 million euros) and $4.5 million, with the cash coming from the prize money for the season-ending World Tour Finals or the final bonus pools for top players. “None of us top players got anything handed to us, we all had to fight our way up,” Dominic Thiem said. “I don’t have the guarantee in any job that I will do well and earn lots of money, that’s my opinion on the matter,” he said. [AFP] VANGUARD Australia Open: Dominic Thiem says there are "no secrets" between him Alexander Zverev as they prepare for a battle of "small margins" to make an Australian Open final for the first time. The fifth seed faces his good friend on Friday after stunning world number one Rafael Nadal in the… January 30, 2020 In "Sports" Novak Djokovic overcame having to play twice in a day before cruising into his eighth final of the Rome Masters with a ruthless 6-1, 6-0 win over Dominic Thiem on Saturday. May 20, 2017 In "News" Dominic Thiem saved three break points in the final game to deliver a 6-4, 6-4 upset of 11-time champion Rafael Nadal and reach the final of the Barcelona Open on Saturday. April 27, 2019 In "News"