ABUJA—THE daughter of President Muhammadu Buhari who went on self-isolation after returning from the United Kingdom, UK, two weeks ago has rejoined the family. Recall that the First Lady, Dr. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari had about two weeks ago wrote on her Twitter handle that her daughter had gone on self-isolation for 14-days. She had explained that the action was a precautionary measure to curb any spread of the COVID-19 (Coronavirus) as the daughter returned from UK which is one of the high-risk countries. But a statement issued by Aliyu Abdullahi, Special Assistant to the President on Media & Publicity, Office of the First Lady, said that the Buhari’s daughter has completed the isolation period and has reunited with the family. The statement read, “I’m happy to inform you that the young lady in question, Mr. President’s daughter has successfully completed her isolation period of 14 days and she’s normal, very healthy and well. “She has since this afternoon (Thursday) rejoined her family, the mother, her Excellency First Lady, Dr. Aisha Buhari personally received her. ” The lesson here for Nigerians and other parents to learn is that this is a child with all the privileges one can ever think to have in the country but the parents and the daughter insisted in following the NCDC protocol.” Vanguard Nigeria News Muhammadu Buhari has slammed a self-isolation order on all Federal Government officials who had just returned from Germany on an official engagement. “The President has ordered all FG officials who have returned from high burden COVID-19 countries to self-isolate after some of them returned from Germany last week, refusing to… March 24, 2020 In "News" One of the daughters of President Muhammadu Buhari is currently in self-isolation after returning from the UK. READ ALSO: LASG Confirm 4 more new cases of COVID-19 The First Lady, Aisha Buhari said she not symptomatic but feels the need to go into self-isolation as a precautionary measure against COVID 19. March 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Victor Ogunyinka Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, has announced that her daughter has gone into self-isolation after returning from the United Kingdom. In a tweet thread on her verified Twitter handle, Aisha Buhari explained that although she (her daughter) wasn't showing any symptom, it is only important that she… March 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"