President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday approved a phased and gradual easing off of the lock-down imposed on Abuja, Lagos and Ogun states a month ago, saying  it would take effect on Monday, May 4, 2020. Buhari also imposed on Kano an immediate, total lock-down for two weeks to check the spread of the virus in the state, and warned security agents against human rights abuses. The President, who said his approval was based on the recommendations of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, NGF, said the lock-down would not be eased until some conditions were met. They include the fact that selected businesses and offices can open from 9am to 6pm; that there will be an overnight curfew from 8pm to 6am, meaning that there would be prohibition of movement during this period, except essential services;  that there will be a ban on non-essential inter-state passenger travels until further notice;  that there will be partial and controlled interstate movement of goods and services to allow for the movement of goods and services from producers to consumers. Other conditions include the fact that there must be mandatory use of face masks or coverings in public, in addition to maintaining physical distancing and personal hygiene. The President also stated that restrictions on social and religious gatherings  would  remain in place, and encouraged state governments, corporate organizations and philanthropists to support the production of cloth masks for citizens. President Buhari,  who addressed  Nigerians in a nationwide radio and television  broadcast in Abuja last night, said: “Fellow Nigerians, for the past four weeks, most parts of our country have been under either federal government or state government  lock-downs.  These steps were necessary and overall, have contributed to slowing down the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria. “However, such lock-downs have also come at a very heavy economic cost. Many of our citizens have lost their means of livelihoods. Many businesses have also shut down. No country can afford the full impact of a sustained lock-down while awaiting the development of vaccines or cures. “In my last address, I mentioned the Federal Government will develop strategies and policies that will protect lives while preserving livelihoods.  In these two weeks, the federal and state governments have jointly and collaboratively worked hard on how to balance the need to protect health, while also preserving livelihoods, leveraging global best practice while keeping in mind our peculiar circumstances. “We looked at  how our factories, markets, traders and transporters can continue to function while at the same time  adhering to the NCDC guidelines on hygiene and social distancing.  We assessed how our children can continue to learn without compromising their health. ‘’We reviewed how our farmers can safely plant and harvest in this rainy season to ensure our food security is not compromised.  Furthermore, we also discussed how to safely transport food items from rural production areas to industrial processing zones and ultimately, to the key consumption centers.  ‘’Our goal was to develop implementable policies that will ensure our economy continues to function while still maintaining our aggressive response to the COVID-19. These same difficult decisions are being faced by leaders around the world. “Based on the above and in line with the recommendations of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, the various Federal Government committees that have reviewed socio-economic matters and the Nigeria Governors Forum, I have approved for a phased and gradual easing of lock-down measures in FCT, Lagos and Ogun States effective from Monday, May 4, 2020 at 9am. “However, this will be followed strictly with aggressive reinforcement of testing and contact tracing measures while allowing the restoration of some economic and business activities in certain sectors. “The highlights of the new nationwide measures are as follows: “We will strictly ensure the mandatory use of face masks or coverings in public, in addition to maintaining physical distancing and personal hygiene. Furthermore, the restrictions on social and religious gathers shall remain in place. State governments, corporate organizations and philanthropists are encouraged to support the production of cloth masks for citizens. “For the avoidance of doubt, the lockdown in the FCT, Lagos & Ogun States shall remain in place until these new ones come into effect on Monday, May 4, 2020, at 9am. “The Presidential Task Force shall provide sector-specific details and timing guidelines to allow for preparations by governments, businesses and institutions. State governors may choose to amend, adapt and expand based on their unique circumstances, provided they maintain alignment with the guidelines issued  public health and hygiene. “These revised guidelines will not apply to Kano State. The total lock-down recently announced by the state government shall remain enforced for the full duration. The Federal Government shall deploy all the necessary human, material and technical resources to support the state in controlling and containing the pandemic. “I wish to once again commend the front-line workers across the country who, on a daily basis, risk everything to ensure we win this fight. For those who got infected in the line of duty, be rest assured that government will do all it takes to support you and your families during this exceedingly difficult period. “I will also take this opportunity to assure you all that your safety, well being and welfare remain paramount to our government. “I will also recognize the support we have received from our traditional rulers, the Christian Association of Nigeria, the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs and other prominent religious and community leaders. “Your cooperation and support has significantly contributed to the successes we have recorded to date. I will urge you all to please continue to create awareness on the seriousness of coronavirus among your worshippers and communities while appealing that they strictly comply with  public health advisories. “I will also thank the Nigeria Governors’ Forum and the Presidential Task Force for all their hard work to date. Through this collaboration, I remain confident that success is achievable.  I also wish to thank corporate organizations, philanthropists, the UN family, the European Union, friendly nations, the media and other partners that have taken up the responsibility of supporting our response. ‘’ Speaking further, the President said:  ‘’As at yesterday, 26th April 2020 (Sunday), some three million confirmed cases of COVID-19 have been recorded globally with about nine hundred thousand recoveries. Unfortunately, some two hundred thousand people have also died as a result of this pandemic. “The health systems and economies of many nations continue to struggle as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. Nigeria continues to adopt and adapt to these new global realities on a daily basis. This evening, I will present the facts as they are and explain our plans for the coming month, knowing full well that some key variables and assumptions may change in the coming days or weeks. “Exactly two weeks ago, there were three hundred and twenty three confirmed cases in 20 States and the Federal Capital Territory. As at this morning (yesterday), Nigeria has recorded one thousand two hundred and seventy-three cases across 32 States and the FCT. Unfortunately, these cases include 40 deaths. “I will use this opportunity to express our deepest condolences to the families of all Nigerians that have lost their loved ones as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. This is our collective loss and we share in your grief. “Initial models predicted that Nigeria will record an estimated two thousand confirmed cases in the first month after the index case. This means that despite the drastic increase in the number of confirmed cases recorded in the past two weeks, the measures we have put in place thus far have yielded positive outcomes against the projections. “The proportion of cases imported from other countries has reduced to only 19% of new cases, showing that our border closures yielded positive results. These are mostly fellow Nigerians returning through our land borders. We will continue to enforce land border arrival protocols as part of the containment strategy. “Today, the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has accredited 15 laboratories across the country with an aggregate capacity to undertake 2,500 tests per day across the country.   Based on your feedback, Lagos the State Government and the FCT, with support from NCDC, have established several sample collection centers in Lagos and the FCT. “They are also reviewing their laboratory testing strategy to further increase the number of tests they can perform, including the accreditation of selected private laboratories that meet the accreditation criteria. “Several new fully equipped treatment and isolation centres have been operationalised across the country, thereby increasing bed capacity to about three thousand. At this point, I will commend the state governors for the activation of State-level Emergency Operation Centres, establishment of new treatment centres and the delivery of aggressive risk communication strategies. “Over ten thousand healthcare workers have been trained. For their protection, additional personal protective equipment have been distributed to all the states. Although we have experienced logistical challenges, we remain committed to establish a solid supply chain process to ensure these heroic professionals  can work safely and are properly equipped. “In keeping with our government’s promise to improve the welfare of healthcare workers, we have signed a memorandum of understanding on the provision of hazard allowances and other incentives with key health sector professional associations. “We have also procured insurance cover for five thousand front-line health workers. At this point, I must commend the insurance sector for their support in achieving this within a short period of time.   Nigeria has also continued to receive support from the international community, multilateral agencies, the private sector and public-spirited individuals. “This support has ensured that critical lifesaving equipment and materials, which have become scarce globally, are available for Nigeria through original equipment manufacturers and government-to-government processes. “The distribution and expansion of palliatives which I directed in my earlier broadcast is still on going in a transparent manner. I am mindful of the seeming frustration being faced by expectant citizens. I urge all potential beneficiaries to exercise patience as we continue to fine tune our logistical and distribution processes working with state governments. “I have directed the Central Bank of Nigeria and other financial institutions to make further plans and provisions for financial stimulus packages for small and medium scale enterprises. We recognise the critical role they play in Nigeria’s economy. “Our security agencies continue to rise to the challenge posed by this unusual situation. While we feel deeply concerned about isolated security incidents involving hoodlums and miscreants, I want to assure all Nigerians that your safety and security remain our primary concern, especially in these exceedingly difficult and uncertain times. “As we focus on protecting lives and properties, we will not tolerate any human rights abuses by our security agencies. The few reported incidences are regrettable, and I want to assure you that the culprits will be brought to justice. “I urge all Nigerians to continue to cooperate and show understanding whenever they encounter security agents. Furthermore, for their protection, I have instructed the personnel of the security agencies be provided with the necessary personal protective equipment for their own protection. “As we continue to streamline our response in the epicenters of Lagos and the FCT, I remain concerned about the unfortunate developments in Kano in recent days. Although an in-depth investigation is still ongoing, we have decided to deploy additional Federal Government’s human, material and technical resources to strengthen and support the state government’s efforts. We will commence implementation immediately. “In Kano, and indeed many of other states that are recording new cases, preliminary findings show that such cases are mostly from interstate travel  and emerging community transmission.    Drawing from these, I implore all Nigerians to continue to adhere strictly to the advisories published by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. “These include regular hand washing, social physical distancing, wearing of face masks/coverings in public, avoidance of non-essential movement and travels and avoidance of large gatherings remain paramount.” Vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday signed the Proclamation Order on the General Management of COVID-19 in Lagos, Ogun, Kano, the Federal Capital Territory, and other states in the country as contained in his Monday’s nationwide broadcast. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, confirmed this… April 27, 2020 In "News" By David Royal President Muhammadu Buhari has approved a phased and gradual easing of the lockdown in Lagos, Ogun states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The President announced this on Monday during his third nationwide broadcast on COVID-19. He said "Based on the above and in line with the… April 28, 2020 In "News" Here's a summary of President Buhari's speech concerning his adjustments, review and orders on the nature of COVID-19 lockdown nationwide. President Muhammadu Buhari gave a speech on the lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and the FCT, among other issues, on Monday. 1. Over 10,000 healthcare workers have been trained and PPE… April 28, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"