As part of efforts towards cushioning the effect of the ongoing lockdown on the masses, Lagos-based non-profit, Stop Hurting People Foundation, has begun the distribution of N2,000 COVID-19 palliative to 10,000 Nigerians. According to Pastor Eunice Iferi Chukwuemeka, Founder/President, Stop Hurting People Foundation, the COVID-19 palliative supported by partners, was hastily designed to ensure the common man does not die of hunger while on lockdown. She said: “What is happening on the streets of our cities is horrendous. The people who earn their living on a daily basis are struggling to find even a meal a day. We call on government and well-meaning individuals home and abroad to come to their aid. ALSO READ:Bayelsa state government to review IDP welfare policy “I would suggest that government uses the Bank Verification Number, BVN, to, at least, send help to the people or explore the services of companionate non-governmental organisations, NGOs, to reach out to the people. “Giving them cash instead of food will help ensure transparency and prevent any form of stealing. Believe me, the rate of hunger out there is alarming. When my foundation started reaching out to the poor, we started with the people around us. “However, people from Nassarawa, Ado, Edo, Cross River, Imo, Anambra, Delta, Abeokuta, etc. began sending in appeals to our Facebook page and we had to ask them to send their account numbers. “We sent in 2,000 each to as many as we could reach.” Chukwuemeka also implored well-to-do Nigerians to be their brothers’ keepers, saying, “Wealthy Nigerians, be your brother’s keeper. That is a proof that you are alive. Feed at least one person per day. “To government again, I will say food is a major necessity; it is senseless to protect the people from COVID-19 only to expose them to death by hunger and violence.” She however also appealed to Nigerians to be reasonable and not consider boycotting the lockdown an option due to hunger since it would help control the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Vanguard A pro government group known as Committee of Youth on Mobilization and Sensitization, CYMS, has faulted the processes of distribution of palliatives aimed to cushion the Federal Government's lockdown order on the people, saying that over 80 percent of the affected Nigerians are yet to feel the impact of the… April 10, 2020 In "News" A pro government group known as Committee of Youth on Mobilization and Sensitization, CYMS, has urged the Federal Government to ensure fairness in the distribution of  palliatives to Nigerians during the extension of lockdown ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari. April 15, 2020 In "News" A Kaduna-based Non-governmental organization, Okuma Sunday Foundation, has identified many widows in Kaduna and donated food items to them. April 16, 2020 In "News"