The body of the late Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari, has been flown into Abuja this morning. It was received at the Nnamdi International Airport, Abuja by senior officials of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. The body arrived preparatory to its interment later today in the Federal Capital Territory in accordance with Islamic rites. Kyari died in a Lagos hospital Thursday from complications related to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). Sources at the State House told Vanguard that they (staff) have been directed to assemble at Defence House for prayers. Confirming the arrival of the body of the Chief of Staff, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu said, “We just received the body of Abba Kyari the deceased Chief of Staff to the President in Abuja. In strict observation of the protocol put in place for the burial of Coronavirus victims by the @NCDCgov and the Federal Ministry of Health, the funeral prayer and burial will be private. “Thereafter,there will be no such ceremonies as condolence visits. Well meaning friends, family members and the general public are encouraged to pray for the repose of Abba Kyari’s soul. May Allah grant the family and nation the fortitude to bear the loss.” Vanguard Nigeria News By Johnbosco Agbakwuru The body of the late Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari, has been flown into Abuja this morning. It was received at the Nnamdi International Airport, Abuja by senior officials of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. The body arrived preparatory to its interment later today in… April 18, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday presided over the meeting of the Federal Council (FEC) with Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and cabinet ministers in attendance. November 8, 2017 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA---THERE is palpable fears at the State House as three staff of the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari has tested positive to coronavirus (COVID-19). A presidential source confirmed the development. Meanwhile, all the aides at the Vice President’s wing with the exception of his… March 25, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"