The European Union is set to give 15 billion euros’ (16.3 billion dollars’) worth of support to Africa and other regions of the world for their efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic. “In a few weeks, Africa and our neighbours could be facing the same enormous challenges that we here in Europe are currently facing,” said EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Tuesday. “They need our help to effectively stop the spread of the virus, just as we needed help during this crisis,” she added in a video on Twitter. According to her, it’s in the bloc’s interest that the fight against the coronavirus is successful around the world. “For this reason, the European Union is now securing financial aid of more than 15 billion euros to support partner countries worldwide in the fight against the virus,” she said. The tweet said the money involved grants that were being diverted. Further support would be coming from individual EU member states. The financial help will help to strengthen health systems, keep people in work and support economies, she added. (DPA/NAN) Vanguard Nigeria News Austria announced Wednesday a 38 billion euro ($41bln) rescue package to combat the economic fallout of the novel coronavirus as Chancellor Sebastian Kurz warned of a protracted fight against the pandemic. While some details of the new measures are still being finalised, they include 15 blillion euros of aid for those… March 18, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Britain unveils its first post-Brexit budget on Wednesday, with all eyes on emergency government measures to ease the economic pain from the coronavirus outbreak. It comes the day after a minister in the health department, Nadine Dorries, tested positive for COVID-19, raising concern about whether she has spread the infection.… March 11, 2020 In "Foreign" On February 27, 2020, Nigeria reported its first case of coronavirus and the country’s Health Minister, Osagie Ehanire, revealed that government agencies are working on containing the virus. Prior to announcing the first case of the virus in Nigeria, the CEO of Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Chikwe… March 30, 2020 In "News"