The African Development Bank, AfDB, has approved additional funding of €12.33 million for the Abidjan-Lagos Highway corridor project. In a statement on Wednesday, the bank said the funds would be used to cover “part of the costs related to the study of the Abidjan-Lagos Motorway corridor development project.” ALSO READ: AfDB set to invest $200m in Nigeria to boost electricity supply The road corridor links cities across five West African countries namely Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Togo, Benin and Nigeria. The statement on the AfDB website read: “The Abidjan-Lagos project, an important regional trade and transport corridor provide a link between economically-dynamic cities in Africa, namely Abidjan, Accra, Cotonou, Lomé and Lagos. “It not only links the most densely populated and economically active areas of the West African sub-region but it also crosses a rail network and joins the main ports and airports. “Its purpose is to strengthen trade and integration in West Africa, in particular by providing maritime port access to landlocked countries.” The road also joins other corridors along the north-south axis and connects landlocked countries such as Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger and Chad. The ECOWAS commission had, on behalf of five countries, requested the support of the bank in financing preparatory studies for the realisation and management of the Abidjan-Lagos Highway corridor project. In total, AfDB has contributed €22.4 million to the Abidjan-Lagos highway corridor project. Vanguard The signing of a treaty for the Abidjan-Lagos corridor ECOWAS to sign Abidjan/Lagos highway treaty at summit project treaty, is to be top on the agenda of the Summit of ECOWAS Heads of State and Government. February 19, 2014 In "News" Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has pledged the commitment of the Federal Government to the realization of the Abidjan-Lagos corridor highway development and its completion on schedule. November 10, 2017 In "News" The Economic Community of West African States, ECOWAS is to begin action plan on the construction of the 1,028kilometers Lagos-Abidjan road after presenting its report at the African Union summit next month April 30, 2013 In "Homes & Property"