The Medical Guild says three doctors at Alimosho General Hospital and Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, had tested positive for COVID-19. Dr Oluwajimi Sodipo and Dr Ismail Ajibowo, Chairman and Secretary of the guild respectively, made this known on Thursday in Lagos on the Instagram account of the guild. Medical Guild is an umbrella body of doctors under the employment of the Lagos State Government. Sodipo and Ajibowo said that the three doctors had been admitted at different isolation facilities in Lagos for treatment. They said that the medical conditions of their three members were stable, and were enjoying the support of the guild. The guild leaders also said that the doctors at Alimosho General Hospital, Ikorodu General Hospital, Lagos General Hospital and Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) had been exposed to COVID-19 cases. “Since the incident, we have been working with our representatives in those centres, and the Medical Directors of the facilities to ensure testing of those involved. “This is with a plan for care in the unfortunate incident of positive cases,” they said. ALSO READ: Lagos boosts family welfare with compulsory health insurance The guild leaders said that they would engage the state government on the need to designate all doctors as the frontline workers, provide them with adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) and incentives due to risks they were exposed to. They expressed optimism that the engagement with the government would be favourable. The leaders warned medical doctors against attending to patients without adequate PPE, due to the community transmission and varying symptoms of COVID-19, stressing that all patients were COVID-19 suspects. “We should also adopt rational use of PPEs, while adopting the slogan of ‘No PPE, No work,” Sodipo and Ajibowo said. They expressed the guild’s appreciation for the enormous sacrifice and efforts that members were making in the fight against COVID-19. “This is in spite of the serious risk to everyone of us, and most, especially our families and the loved ones,” the guild leaders said. According to them, regular update will be made to members, appealing that unity of purpose was needed in handling the present situation and urged members to stay safe in the course of their duties. Vanguard Activities resumed fully on Saturday at the general hospitals and the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) as doctors called off a three-day warning strike in Lagos. April 14, 2012 In "News" The leadership of Medical Guild in Lagos public hospitals yesterday announced the suspension of the 14 weeks old strike for a period of five days to allow the state government implement the “mutual agreement’” newly reached at their last meeting. November 21, 2010 In "News" RIPPLE effects of the indefinite strike called by Lagos doctors under the auspices of Medical Guild took its toll on healthcare institutions in the state, yesterday, as several cases of deaths were allegedly recorded following paralysis of medical and clinical services even as patronage from patients dipped significantly. April 26, 2012 In "News"