Chris Froome’s hunger for a fifth or even sixth Tour de France victory remains undiminished although he is unsure the race can go ahead in 2020 due to coronavirus, he told French daily L’Equipe in an interview published on Tuesday. The Tour’s postponement until late August suits the four-time winner who has been fighting to regain fitness from severe injuries sustained in a training crash last June. “It’s an advantage for me, the race being put back, but it’s not something to celebrate,” said Froome. The Kenyan-born racer feels the Tour may still be cancelled due to the pandemic, but is training hard for victory at his Monaco base. “I’m confident I’ll be 100 percent fit at the starting line,” said Froome, who turns 35 next month and who is in the final year of his Ineos contract. “Maybe it won’t take place, but I’m training as if it will go ahead,” he told L’Equipe. “We have the new date and mentally I’m focussed on being ready.” The Tour has been rescheduled to embark from Nice on August 29 from its original June start date in an attempt to make sure the sport’s central financial pillar can be staged this season. Froome, who had a brush with death in his crash at the Criterium de Dauphine in 2019, told L’Equipe health concerns should stand above economic ones. “It would be a pity if the biggest race of the season didn’t go ahead, but people’s health comes first,” he said. “I’m sure that neither the (French) government nor the (organisers) ASO will take risks with the riders, their teams and the public,” added Froome who won the Tour in 2013, 2015, 2016 and 2017. Ater winning the Vuelta a Espana in 2017 and the Giro d’Italia in 2018 to hold all three Grand Tours his star has waned. His co-captain Geraint Thomas emerged as the 2018 winner while Ineos protege Egan Bernal claimed the 2019 title. “My dream is to retire having won more Tour de Frances than any other rider,” said Froome. He needs one more to equal Eddy Merckx, Jacques Anquetil, Bernard Hinault and Miguel Indurain, who have all won it five times. [AFP] VANGUARD Tour de France runner-up Tom Dumoulin led the tributes as Geraint Thomas celebrated winning his maiden yellow jersey on Sunday. July 29, 2018 In "Sports" Four-time Tour de France winner Chris Froome says he has not broken any rules after returning an "adverse" drugs test result during his victory at this year's Vuelta a Espana. December 14, 2017 In "News" Chris Froome says "it will be a huge relief just to be back in the peloton" next week in the UAE Tour, eight months after he suffered devastating injuries in a high-speed crash. The four-time Tour de France winner fractured a thigh, elbow and vertebrae in the career-threatening accident during… February 21, 2020 In "Sports"