United States President, Donald Trump, said on Wednesday his country would send at least 200 ventilators to Nigeria. The US President on Tuesday held a telephone conversation with his Nigerian counterpart, Muhammadu Buhari, on how to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. Trump, who spoke at a press briefing in Florida, confirmed he had a chat with the Nigerian leader on the peculiarities of the COVID-19 pandemic in the West African nation. He said there were plans by the US to send ventilators to other countries amid the coronavirus pandemic. The governor of Florida, Ron DeSantis, also attended the briefing. According to Trump, Florida had been in need of ventilators, and thousands were sent to them and now, they had a surplus not being used which could be sent to other countries. He said: “Ron said one thing that was interesting. He talked about ventilators and that ventilators were going to be a disaster in Florida and not enough and we sent them thousands of ventilators. But in the meantime, you have thousands of ventilators that are not used and we will be able to send them probably to other countries.” “You will build up your stockpile because these other countries, Italy, France, Spain; we are sending to Spain. I spoke today to Nigeria. They will do anything for ventilators. We are going to send at least 200 ventilators to Nigeria; probably more than that.” Nigeria currently has 1, 532 confirmed cases of COVID-19 with 44 deaths while the US has been ravaged by the scourge. America’s COVID-19 status stands at 1,056,646 cases and 61,180 deaths respectively.  Vanguard     US President, Donald Trump on Tuesday, had a telephone conversation with Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari over the coronavirus pandemic in the country. This was revealed by Lai Mohammed, minister of information, at the media briefing of the presidential task force on COVID-19. He said the US president promised to send… April 28, 2020 In "News" United States President, Donald Trump, has assured Nigeria of greater support in its fight against COVID-19, promising to supply more ventilators to Nigeria to support its national response. April 29, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Donald Trump's administration said Friday the United States will sell ventilators to at least four developing countries to fight the coronavirus, saying US needs were being met. Trump said he spoke by telephone to the presidents of Indonesia, Ecuador, El Salvador and Honduras and promised that the United States would send… April 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"