Hollywood actor-turned-lawmaker, Desmond Olushola Elliot has described his social media critics as “agents of negativity” for deriding his hand wash donation to his Surulere constituents. Reacting in an Instagram post yesterday, the visibly angry lawmaker berated the social media community for their habit of not seeing anything good in whatever other people have done. He particularly lamented the alarming rate at which negativity thrives on social media, adding that he’s always attacked in spite of the good works he has attempted to do in his Surulere constituency. According to him, while he is not averse to criticisms, anyone criticising him must be constructive, in addition to taking into considerations his other previously accomplished projects. The lawmaker lambasted bloggers and social media users for peddling negativity, and rarely doing anything to support in nation-building. “Normally, I would have ignored them, but this has to do with life and death due to the COVID-19; a response from me is very necessary this time. I got a couple of messages from people showing me the backlashes and criticisms going on social media concerning my hand washing project. The actor-turned-politician had come under social media criticism a few days after he showcased his hand-washing project to support the Lagos State government in combating the spread of COVID-19. Some Nigerians on social media seemed unimpressed with the project and they expressed their dissatisfaction. VANGUARD Nollywood actor/producer turned politician, Desmond Elliot, on Monday was inaugurated as one of the lawmakers into the Lagos State House of Assembly. June 8, 2015 In "Music" Nollywood actor turned politician, Desmond Elliot who is the Lawmaker representing Surulere 1 constituency in the Lagos State House of Assembly, Desmond Eliot, has told the people of his constituency that he is not Power Holding Company to fix and provide electricity for them. July 26, 2016 In "News" According to Hon. Elliot, “The physically challenged are one of the most vulnerable groups in the world today. In most Nigerian societies they have been neglected to their fate but the fact remains that they are bonafide members of our communities and we have a responsibility towards their well-being. My… November 9, 2015 In "News"