The 36 states governors, on Wednesday, resorted to adopting a two-week inter-state lockdown as measures aimed at containing the spread of coronavirus pandemic across the country. This was concluded during the sixth teleconference led by Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, during which the governors harped on the need to decentralise the COVID-19 response. “We, members of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), at our meeting held today deliberated on the COVID-19 pandemic in the country and resolved as follows: “Members also conveyed their condolence to President Muhammadu Buhari and the people of Borno State on the passing of the Chief of Staff to the President, Mr Abba Kyari, who passed away on 17th April 2020 in the line of duty to the country. “The NGF Chairman briefed the forum on the rapidly evolving situation of the COVID-19 pandemic and coordination efforts with the Federal Government, multilateral and bilateral partners and the private sector through the Coalition against COVID-19 (CACOVID). “With over 25 states now affected by the spread of the virus and increasing evidence of community transmission, state governors called for the decentralisation of the COVID-19 response as the best chance of nipping in the bud the spread of the virus in communities. “Following an update from the NGF Secretariat on the number of COVID-19 cases in the country, members expressed concern over the rising spread of the virus among health workers and resolved to work with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to ensure that health workers are adequately provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) and are constantly trained on the use of protective gears. “In order to strengthen coordinated implementation of necessary public health recommendations across states, governors resolved to set up COVID-19 committees at the regional level, headed by their state Commissioners of Health. “Regional committees will continue to interface with the State Task Force Committees on COVID-19 already established in each state. The forum also received briefing from the governors of Lagos, Bauchi, Oyo and Ogun states who shared their experiences and lessons from the fight against COVID-19. The Governors unanimously agreed to the implementation of an inter-state lockdown in the country over the next two weeks to mitigate the spread of the virus from state to state. Only essential services will be permitted. Lastly, the forum congratulated the Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State, who after nearly four weeks of testing positive and observing very strict medical regime, has now received two consecutive negative test results for the coronavirus. Vanguard Nigeria News The members of Nigeria Governors' Forum (NGF) at a meeting held on Wednesday had agreed to implement inter-state lockdown to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in the country. Coronavirus has spread to 25 states in Nigeria and the FCT. As at 11:25 pm, 21st April, there are… April 22, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" ABUJA— Governors in the  36 states of the federation have resolved to set up infection prevention and control committees in their states as part of  efforts to support health workers on the frontline of the pandemic. April 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" ABUJA—Governors in the 19 northern states of the federation have said states in the region cannot afford lockdown, noting that the development would come at a high cost. April 15, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"