Air Operators of Nigeria, AON, Wednesday threatened to stop all flights operations to Rivers State for three months if the remanded pilots of Caverton Helicopters are not released by the governor of the state, Mr Nyasom Wike. A statement by the chairman of AON, Captain Nogie Meggisson read: “The Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) hereby calls for the immediate release of two (2) Pilots of Caverton Helicopters that were recently arrested and taken into custody in handcuffs by the Rivers State Government for allegedly flouting the COVID19 Lockdown Order in the State”. “The Airline Operators Nigeria condemns the move in the strongest term and considers it very unlawful in the face of the fact that the airline had secured all necessary approvals from the Ministry of Aviation and the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) for the flight in line with the protocols for exemption of Essential flights as issued by the NCAA”. “The AON also frowns at the crude action because the pilots were only doing their lawful duties which were also in line with President Muhammed Buhari’s Exemption Order of the Oil and Gas sector during the shutdown exercise”. “Aviation is under the Exclusivity List of the Federal Government and the Port Harcourt NAF Base is a Federal Government entity outside the jurisdiction of the Rivers State Government”. “The Airline Operators of Nigeria hereby demands the immediate and unconditional release of the two pilots with all purported charges dropped so that they can go back to their families for the Easter holidays and return to their jobs”. “However, should the Rivers State Government fail to release the pilots within 24 hours, Airlines in the country will be forced to boycott all schedule and unscheduled commercial and private flight operations, including oil and gas offshore flight services, into Port Harcourt for a period of three (3) months”. “We, therefore, hope our appeal for the immediate release of the pilots within 24 hours will be heeded by Rivers State Government otherwise Airlines in the country will have no other option than to completely boycott all operations into Port Harcourt,” said AON Chairman, Capt. Nogie Meggison.” Vanguard Caverton Helicopters yesterday appealed to the federal government to prevail on the Governor of River State, Mr Nyesom Wike to release its pilots who have been remanded at the Port Harcourt prison. The governor accused the pilots of flying expatriates into River State without involving the state government in the… April 7, 2020 In "News" BY LAWANI MIKAIRU Controversy surrounding the status of the aircraft, Bombardier BD 700 Express jet owned by the Rivers State Government was further stoked, yesterday, as the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, NCAA, faulted the claim by Rivers State that the aircraft was being operated through a local operator, Caverton Helicopters.… May 2, 2013 In "News" Airline Operators of Nigeria, AON, yesterday decried deplorable state of navigational aids at airports in the country. December 29, 2016 In "News"