The Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Air Peace Airline, Chief Allen Onyema, yesterday, said that he is not interested in partisan politics, insisting that he is a businessman and does not have any political ambition. Onyema made this known while reacting to an online poster by a group known as United People of Nigeria Initiative, UPNI, endorsing him for Nigeria’s presidency in 2023. He said that his humanitarian gestures stem from his desire to give back to society as his own contribution to humanity and not a fillip to aspire to any political office. The Air Peace Chairman who said that the call was made in bad taste repudiated the endorsement and those behind it and urged them to desist from such campaign in future. His words: “My attention has been drawn to an online poster by a group that goes by the name United People of Nigeria Initiative, UPNI, endorsing me for Nigeria’s presidency in 2023. One Sir Wealthson Chukwudi was exposed on the poster as President of the group. “I wish to state clearly that this man, UPNI and its promoters are not known to me directly or remotely and whatever they are saying has not come from me and will never come from me. I am a businessman and not a politician. “My purpose is to impact humanity and I do not have to be President first before I can continue with what has become part of my essence. This is my nature. My motivations are different. I call on the public to completely ignore this group and any other group or persons that may come up with such message and mischief about me in future. I, personally, feel very offended by it all. “I am very suspicious of the motive behind this unsolicited publication. Once again, I am not interested in partisan politics.” Vanguard The Chairman and CEO of Air Peace airline,  Barrister Allen Onyema yesterday said that he is not interested in partisan politics, insisting that he is a businessman and does not have any political ambition. April 20, 2020 In "News" An Igbo group, Ogbako-Igbo led by the President, Vitalis Ajumbe, yesterday said that the United States allegation of fraud linking the Managing Director of Air peace airline, Allen Onyema, was the handiwork of enemies trying to pull down businesses owned by Igbo in the country. November 27, 2019 In "News" Arewa, Oodua and Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) youths have commended the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Air Peace, Mr. Allen Onyema for spending about N.3 billion on their two-part nonviolence and peace training in Lagos and the United States of America, describing him as God’s gift to Nigeria. March 23, 2018 In "News"