Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano has sacked the northwestern state’s infrastructure and works commissioner, Muazu Magaji, for “celebrating the death of Mallam Abba Kyari’”. Kyari, Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, died on Friday after battling with the dreaded Coronavirus and was buried on Saturday in Abuja. Magaji’s sack is contained in a statement by Mallam Muhammad Garba, the Commissioner of Information, a copy of which was made available to newsmen on Saturday in Kano. Garba disclosed that Magaji was sacked following his “unguarded utterances on social media, against the late Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari”. “As a public servant, the commissioner ought to have respected the sanctity of the office by refraining from any act capable of dragging the office to disrepute. “The action of a public servant, personal or otherwise, reflects back on the government, therefore, the Ganduje administration will not tolerate people in official capacities engaging in personal vendetta or otherwise,” it stated. While commiserating with the President over the demise of Kyari, Garba said that the deceased led a life worthy of emulation by serving his country to the best of his ability. The statement was, however, silent on the exact comments that cost the commissioner his job and the particular social media platform he used. Vanguard Nigeria News Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has sacked his Commissioner of Works and Infrastructure, Engineer Mu'azu Magaji for celebrating the death of late Abba Kyari, Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari. April 18, 2020 In "News" The Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has relieved the appointment of the Commissioner of Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Mu’azu Magaji with immediate effect. According to a statement signed by the Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, the commissioner was removed following his unguarded utterances against the person of… April 18, 2020 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has described the death of Mallam Abba Kyari, the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, as shocking, painful and a monumental loss to the nation, Nigerians, the government of Maiduguri and the Kyari family. Kyari, who died in the early… April 18, 2020 In "News"