President Muhammadu Buhari, last night, condemned the latest attacks by bandits in three local government areas of Katsina State, that left 47 persons dead. Reacting to the incident, the President said he was deeply saddened by the latest development, and called on Nigerians not to despair because “this administration is ever determined to defeat and crush these criminal elements taking advantage of the lockdown to attack their victims.” ALSO READ: Boko Haram cells and need for vigilance In a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, President Buhari said he will not tolerate this large-scale killing of innocent people by the bandits, adding that “in line with my commitment to the security of the people, these attacks will be met with decisive force.” He directed the security agencies not to rest on their oars or lower their guard, which will create a vacuum for the bandits to strike. While extending his sympathies to the families of the victims, he called on the people to show more vigilance by reporting the activities of criminal elements in their midst. Vanguard ----Says he won't tolerate large scale of killing innocent citizens By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA----PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari Sunday night condemned the latest attacks by bandits in Katsina State in three local government areas that left 47 persons dead. Reacting to the incident, the President said that he was deeply saddened by… April 19, 2020 In "News" WHAT could have resulted in a repeat of the Chibok and Dapchi school girls’ abductions was averted in Zamfara State on Wednesday night when bandits stormed Government Girls Comprehensive Secondary School, Moriki in Zurmi Local Council of Zamfara State. May 3, 2019 In "Headlines" ---Says Revenge Killings Unacceptable By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA---PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday warned local communities in Katsina State not to mete out capital punishment on any suspected bandits they catch, rather they should hand them over to the law enforcement authorities. The President said that meting out capital punishment on… February 17, 2020 In "News"