The Director General and Chief Executive Officer of the National Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA), Dr. Rufus Ebegba, Friday, said the agency is set to develop and implement new guidelines that will help curtail the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The DG in a statement, said the Covid-19 pandemic has spread to many countries including Nigeria and the federal Government is doing all in its power to ensure that Nigerians are safe from the adverse impact of this virus. He added that, the Agency therefore, in collaboration with Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government, will bring about, ideas, strategies, to terminate the threat of the coronavirus pandemic. According to him, “As an Agency we are working with line MDAs to come up with a harmonized national Biosecurity policy guideline and emergency response strategy. This strategy when in place will help to save humans and the environment from harmful biological Agents”. “The COVID-19 pandemic has called for the urgent need for this strategy and the need to urgently ensure that Biological Agents are controlled”. He said the NBMA is in constant talks with line Ministries, Departments and Agencies to chart the best way to eliminate this Biological Agent from the country. Ebegba however, urged Nigerians to abide by the stay at home directive by the federal Government in other to control the spread of COVID-19 in the country. He said, “The Federal Government has the interest of its citizens at heart, that is why every citizen should do its part by complying to the stay at home directives by the government”. “As a nation we can defeat this pandemic but it beholds on us to do everything possible to ensure that we fight together to win the battle”. Ebegba explained that simple practices of staying safe, social distancing, ensuring proper hygiene through constant hand washing, using of hand sanitizers and keeping up with the basic directives laid down by the authorities will go a long way to curb the pandemic. “The federal government is making very swift moves to ensure that the Coronavirus is properly contained, hence citizens should complement the Governments efforts by obeying directives”. He stressed. “We seek the corporation of Nigerians in this fight and I want to urge that anyone who has recently returned from countries with high cases of COVID-19 or who has been in contact with anyone who has shown symptoms of the disease should present him or herself for the necessary tests and proper screening”. “The government has expanded the isolation centers to ensure that the spread is minimized as much as possible until the pandemic is contained and eliminated”. Ebegba maintained that self-isolation is key to stop the spread of the disease and urged those with confirmed cases to make themselves available in the designated centers for quarantine and proper recovery process. “Nigerians need not panic rather ensure to follow laid down procedures, people should stop the spread of fake and unverified news as it will further send panic to the people”. The DG assured that despite the changes caused by the pandemic globally and in Nigeria, the government will continue to ensure that its citizens are not adversely affected. Vanguard The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared COVID-19 (Coronavirus) outbreak a pandemic. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that pandemic is an epidemic of disease that has spread across a large region; for instance multiple continents, or worldwide. March 11, 2020 In "Health" Dirisu Yakubu - Abuja Former President Goodluck Jonathan on Thursday urged Nigerians not to give in to fear occasioned by the Coronavirus pandemic but to demonstrate faith and courage in the ability of government to win the war against the scourge. Jonathan in a post on his Facebook page asked… March 26, 2020 In "News" The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has assured of its commitment to alignment of COVID-19  Data Collection Strategies with NDPR Guidelines. March 28, 2020 In "News"