A person was arrested early Thursday after opening  fire on the Cuban embassy in Washington, the US Secret Service said. No one was injured. The unidentified person fired multiple rounds from what some reports said was a high-powered assault rifle. “This morning at approximately 2:15 am, US Secret Service officers responded to the Embassy of Cuba following reports of shots fired,” the Secret Service said in a statement. “One individual was arrested for being in possession of an unregistered firearm as well as unregistered ammunition, assault with the intent to kill, and possession of a high capacity feed device. “No injuries were reported at the scene.” The administration of President Donald Trump has chilled relations with Havana after they were opened up by his predecessor Barack Obama. In October 2017, it expelled 15 Cuban diplomats after a rash of incidents in which US embassy staff in Cuba reported as yet unexplained head pains, dizziness and hearing loss. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, however, on Wednesday criticized South Africa and Qatar for accepting doctors from Cuba to battle the coronavirus, accusing the communist island of profiting from the pandemic. Cuba’s globe-trotting doctors have long been a source of diplomatic soft power and pride for Havana, but Washington says the medical workers only benefit the government and has encouraged them to defect. “We’ve noticed how the regime in Havana has taken advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic to continue its exploitation of Cuban medical workers,” Pompeo told reporters. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. US President Donald Trump vowed to overhaul Barack Obama's deal to restore ties with Cuba on Friday, promising to instead support the Cuban people against their "cruel and brutal" regime. June 16, 2017 In "News" A heavily armed man claiming to be Jesus allegedly plotted to kidnap one of theObama family's dogs and has been arrested, US media and officials said. January 9, 2016 In "News" THE Cuban flag has gone up in Washington DC. It had come down 54 years ago. The American flag is to go up in Havana on August 14. It had come down in 1961. Cuba had on July 20, packed about five hundred guests into its 16th Street mansion Embassy… July 31, 2015 In "Owei Lakemfa"