Secretary-General of the Organisation for Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, Mohammad Barkindo, on Saturday, condoled with President Muhammadu Buhari over the demise of Mallam Abba Kyari, describing the late Chief of Staff as an outstanding public servant who is committed to the common good. In his letter of condolence to Buhari, Barkindo disclosed that the passing of Kyari was a stark reminder of the gloom the novel Coronavirus, COVID-19, had cast over humanity. The OPEC boss said, “It was with profound shock and sadness that I learned of the tragic passing of Mallam Abba Kyari. May his gentle soul rest in eternal peace. We have lost an outstanding public servant par excellence and all Nigerians will feel his loss. “On behalf of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, I would like to offer our sincere condolences to you, Mr. President, his family and the entire people of our great country, Nigeria. ALSO READ: President Buhari writes emotional tribute ‘To My Friend Abba Kyari’ “Mallam Abba was a gallant public servant, fiercely loyal to the common good. When one was in his company, it was very clear that he was somebody who joined public service for all the right reasons. While this is, of course, a time of profound sorrow, we also take succor from his exemplary life, his courage, his dedication to duty and love of country. “Mallam Abba’s passing is another stark reminder of how COVID-19 has cast a terrible shadow over all of humanity. “At this dreadful hour, we give thanks for your strong leadership and look to the timeless principles of cooperation and fraternity among all nations and peoples of the world to guide us through the darkest period in living memory. “May Almighty Allah give you, Mr. President, and the people of our great country, Nigeria, the fortitude to bear this rude shock. Please know that you are in our thoughts and prayers at this tragic time. Besides the OPEC scribe. in his own tribute to the late chief of staff, Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, said: “May Allah forgive Mallam Abba Kyari and have mercy upon him. He was a truly good man, profoundly faithful and loyal to our country. “Vintage Mallam Abba Kyari. Bold, factual, passionate and with profound faith in the persuasions of Mr President. May Allah forgive his shortcomings and have mercy upon him. Vanguard Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta has expressed sadness over the passing away of Mallam Abba Kyari, Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari. Okowa said he was pained by the fact that the elder statesman died of the dreaded COVID-19. The governor’s condolence was conveyed in a statement by his… April 18, 2020 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Sen. Bola Tinubu, has expressed sadness over the death of Abba Kyari, President Muhammadu Buhari’s Chief of Staff. Tinubu, in a condolence message released by his Media Office on Saturday in Lagos, described Kyari as a man of accomplishment, whose death, due to… April 18, 2020 In "News" By Henry Umoru FORMER Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, has described the death of Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari, as a heavy loss to the Presidency and Nigeria, which he gave his all. Ekweremadu joined other well-meaning Nigerians in mourning the late Chief… April 18, 2020 In "News"