Multimillionaire businessman, Alhaji Ismaila Isa Funtua has slammed those who allegedly, shortlisted him among those likely to succeed late Abba Kyari, insisting that the action was belittling. He said in an interview on BBC Hausa service monitored by journalists on Tuesday that even President Buhari would not dare ask him to be Chief of Staff. According to him, “it’s ridiculing for some people to mention my name as a possible replacement for Abba Kyari.” “The story is belittling. Now I employ people, not someone to employ me.” “I had worked with government in the 80s, worked with NA, Native Authority. I was  a minister of the Federal republic in 1983”. “Therefore….for someone to shortlist me for that position is ridiculing especially for a man who served as a minister about 40 years ago and out of government..” “I should be employing people now not trying to struggle for government appointment… At my level and age people should first see if am fit to serve and see if am strong enough and if am up-to-date with current realities of governance… ” “At this level, appointment like that should be for our children the younger generation. Not for my type … Even if they approach the president with my name, he knows he cannot ask me to serve at this age …For Allah’s sake, You mean at my age I should be waking up at 8am to go to work?” “I’ve surpassed that level in life… it’s for people like you and other younger persons… We should stop ridiculing public offices simply because getting appointments,” he said. Vanguard LAGOS — SECOND  Republic Minister and Elder Statesman, Alhaji Ismaila Isa Funtua, 78, has advised those associating him with the post of Chief of Staff, CoS, to President Muhammadu Buhari, to look elsewhere. April 20, 2020 In "News" ABUJA: The recent wave of political protests and counter-protests within the Federal Capital Territory FCT, Abuja has again revealed the battle for supremacy within the president’s kitchen cabinet which Nigerians often refer to as the cabal. June 29, 2019 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday in Abuja declared open the world congress of the International Press Institute (IPI), with the theme – ‘Why Good Journalism Matters: Quality Media for Strong Societies,” which has in attendance international journalists including the Publisher of Vanguard Media, Mr. Sam Amuka, the General Manager of… June 22, 2018 In "News"