Issuing the warning in a press statement, the Director-General of NAFDAC, Prof Christianah Adeyeye explained that companies should not provide free products, samples or reduced-prices for infants (below 6 months old) foods to families through health workers or health facilities, except as supplies distributed through Government or officially sanctioned health programmes. According to Adeyeye, the guidance was  in pursuant to the provisions of the NAFDAC Act, CAP N1 LFN 2004 and the Marketing (Breast Milk Substitutes) ACT CAP M.5 LFN 2004 and the BMS regulations, in keeping with the WHO International Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes She explained that the WHO International Code of Marketing of BMS requires that products distributed in such programmes should not display company brands. “In this specific instance, the unbranded packaging is to focus on the need to support the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, where necessary in terms of infant and young child feeding, rather than use the pandemic as a platform for brand promotion.” The Agency further advised all infant food manufacturers/distributors and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) wishing to make foods for infants and young children (BMS) available for distribution, through officially sanctioned health programmes, to adhere to the clarification provided above and approach NAFDAC for the necessary guidance. “The importance of infant and young child feeding (IYCF) and the continued protection, promotion, and support of breastfeeding during the COVID-19 pandemic cannot be over-emphasized. Breastmilk is the best food for the newborn child as it protects them from sicknesses; it also helps to protect infants and young children. Breastfeeding is especially effective against infectious diseases as it boosts the child’s immunity by directly transferring antibodies from the mother to the child,” she added. vanguard By Chioma Obinna  As Lagos State government commenced enforcement of compulsory use of face masks, the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, NAFDAC, has warned that several washes, drying and stretching of the fabric face mask over time reduce its effectiveness even as it noted that non-medical… April 28, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control, NAFDAC, has raised the alarm over the continued violation of the International Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes, BMS and national regulations by manufacturers of BMS products even as the agency warned that violators of the Code would be jailed for… July 10, 2018 In "Health" The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has called for compliance to the Marketing Breast Milk Substitutes (BMS) Code, saying it is affecting infant nutrition. July 9, 2018 In "Health"