The Enugu State Government has directed all Tricycle Operators in the state, popularly known as “Keke Riders”, to limit their operating time between 6am and 7pm daily, with effect from Monday, April 13, 2020. A statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Uchenna Ortuanya, stated that the decision was in furtherance of the state government’s efforts to sustain its robust response to contain the spread of Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) in the state, as well as provide maximum security for residents. The state government added that “the earlier Executive Order issued by His Excellency, the Governor, that every ‘Keke’ should carry a maximum of two passengers at a time remains in force”. The statement maintained that “any Keke operator found in contravention of the above directive shall be apprehended by the security agencies and dealt with according to the law”. It would be recalled that the Association of Tricycle Riders Transport Union (ATRTU), Enugu State, had reminded its members that the directives by the Enugu State government that all tricycle operators in the state should be carrying two passengers only and should not operate beyond the state’s land boundaries, to contain the spread of Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19), are still in force. In a statement by the Chairman and Secretary of the association, Comrade Benjamin Ejiofor Ikah and Comrade Pius N. Ezugwu, respectively, the reminder was “sequel to security reports that some tricycle operators have started carrying more than two passengers and are also operating beyond the state’s land boundaries in total defiance of the state government’s orders”. According to the statement, “these urgly acts are capable of sabotaging the cherished and tireless efforts of our dear Governor, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, in  containing the spread of this deadly virus”. The Union, therefore, warned “those involved in these acts to immediately desist from them by carrying only two passengers and stop operating close to or beyond the boundaries”. It disclosed that “furthermore, our taskforce has been directed to apprehend and hand over to the police any tricycle operator caught violating the government’s directives in this regard”. Vanguard The Enugu State Government has denied the rumour making the rounds that it plans to ban the operation of tricycles in the state, popularly known as “Keke”, after the 2019 general election, stating that “there is no iota of truth in it”. November 2, 2018 In "Metro" ID 19 The Bayelsa Government has ordered that no tricycle operating in the state should carry more than two passengers at a time to check the coronavirus pandemic. This is contained in a statement signed by the Permanent Secretary in the state’s Ministry of Transport, Mr. Ere Efeke, in Yenagoa… March 24, 2020 In "News" THE restriction of the activities of commercial tricycle operators, popularly known as Keke NAPEP riders at Calabar South and parts of Calabar municipality, Cross River State, from 7.00 am to 5.00 pm by the State Government has caused untold hardship to traders, commuters and riders. June 27, 2017 In "News"