Great Nigeria Insurance, GNI, Plc said it remains committed to supporting every effort of the Federal Government, FG, and the insurance industry aimed at combating the COVID-19 scourge in Nigeria. Accordingly, the company has made a financial commitment to support the insurers’ umbrella body, Nigerian Insurers Association, NIA, intervention fund in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The NIA intervention fund is aimed at raising funds from member-companies to support immediate and long-term relief and recovery in vulnerable communities the COVID-19 pandemic rages. ALSO READ: We need visibility to increase insurance acceptance in Nigeria – Omo Addressing the issue, Managing Director/CEO of GNI, Mrs. Cecilia Osipitan said: “As a result of the exponential spread of COVID-19 pandemic around the world and increase in confirmed cases in Nigeria, it is very important that as a responsive corporate entity, Great Nigeria Insurance remains committed to supporting every effort of the Federal Government and the insurance industry aimed at combating the COVID-19 scourge in Nigeria. “We remain committed to delivering quality service to our customers via our alternative communication channels. “We will keep all our stakeholders abreast of new developments as they unfold, while we enjoin everyone to continue to observe all recommended precautionary measures by the government and health authorities to remain safe.” Vanguard The Federal Government has provided N102.5 billion in resources for direct interventions in the country’s healthcare sector, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, has said. April 6, 2020 In "News" As FG launches One COVID-19 Basket Fund By Omeiza Ajayi The United Nations, UN, has expressed concerns about the effect and true magnitude of the spread of the novel coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria, saying it is yet unclear, and therefore the quality of response to the disease must match the scale… April 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" As FG launches One Covid-19 Basket Fund By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The United Nations UN has expressed concerns about the effect and true magnitude of the spread of the Novel Coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria, saying it is yet unclear, and therefore the quality of response to the disease must… April 6, 2020 In "News"