Akwa Ibom State chapters of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, and the All Progressives Congress, APC, have engaged in war of words over the management of the COVID-19 crisis in the state. The deputy state Chairman of the APC, Dr. Ita Udosen, a medical doctor in a statement yesterday, said,  “We are constrained to issue this statement as our modest contribution to the management of the Coronavirus pandemic in Akwa Ibom State. First of all, our party is disappointed that our governor has not been seen in public in the last one month or so. “Unlike other governors in the country who are very visible in the fight to contain Covid-19 pandemic, our own governor, Emmanuel is nowhere to be found. The complete disappearance of our governor leaves room for a lot of speculations. Is the governor intentionally leaving Akwa Ibomites to fend for themselves in times of crisis like this or is he possibly self-isolating  because of Covid-19? “If the former is the case, we and indeed the Akwa Ibom people want him to please come out of his cocoon and lead this fight from the front.  But if the later is the case, that is if the governor is infected as is being rumoured, he should come clean like other governors in the country who had openly informed their citizens of their status.” But reacting, state Publicity Secretary of the PDP,   Ini Ememobong, said: “The allegation that the governor has not been seen in public for one month now, is another strong evidence backing the veracity of the claim that, immediately a person joins the APC, his thinking faculty, sense of honour and truth are forcefully taken from him, leaving him intellectually bare and morally bankrupt.’’ Vanguard When Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State cries of being a victim of alleged political contrivances weaved by agents and agencies of the Federal Government he ordinarily should win sympathy from us. It is after all, natural for victims of oppression to garner sympathy. However, when acolytes of the ‘oppressed,’ January 28, 2017 In "Political Notes" The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Tuesday condemned the violent invasion of the Akwa-Ibom state House of Assembly by security forces allegedly doing the bidding of the All Progressives Congress, APC, to forcefully take over the control of the legislature. November 27, 2018 In "News" Rivers State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, expressed shock over the comments of Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, that Rivers and Akwa Ibom states were strategic to All Progressives Congress, APC. November 5, 2015 In "News"