ASABA—NINE days after a Celestial Church Pastor was killed at Ibusa, near Asaba, suspected herdsmen, weekend, kidnapped an Anglican Priest, Revd. Anthony Oyi, his wife, his children and one of his friends at Issele-Mkpitime, Aniocha North Local Government Area, Delta State. The priest, who resides at Oko-Ogbele and a native of Issele-Mkpitime, had gone to farm with his family from where they were abducted by the herdsmen. A source, who pleaded anonymity, however, disclosed that the wife and children have been released by the hoodlums with a mandate to go get money for the release of the cleric and his friend. The source said the vigilante group at Issele-Uku and Issele-Mkpitime had been alerted, adding that the vigilante group and the Police were already combing the bush in search of the two men. Confirming the incident, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Onome Onovwakpoyeya, said the Police had launched a search party to rescue the victims unhurt. Vanguard Release wife, children to go get ransom for husband's freedom By Festus Ahon - Asaba Nine days after a Celestial Church Pastor was killed at Ibusa, near Asaba, an Anglican Priest, Revd. Anthony Oyi was yesterday kidnapped with his wife, his children and one of his friends by suspected herdsmen… April 19, 2020 In "News" ...Release wife, children to go get ransom for husband's freedom By Festus Ahon, Asaba Nine days after a Celestial Church Pastor was killed at Ibusa, near Asaba, an Anglican Priest, Revd. Anthony Oyi was yesterday kidnapped with his wife, his children and one of his friends by suspected herdsmen at… April 18, 2020 In "News" By Festus Ahon ASABA-SUSPECTED Fulani herdsmen have reportedly kidnapped the Parish Priest of St. Lawrence Catholic Church, Issele-Mkpitime in Aniocha North Local Government Area,  Rev. Fr. Samuel Agwameseh. The clergy according to sources was abducted along the Onicha-Olona/Issele-Mkpitime road in the Local Government Area, adding that the kidnappers who have… December 16, 2019 In "News"