Dethroned world heavyweight champion, Deontay Wilder, says he still does not see his conqueror Tyson Fury as the true titleholder. The American told a Premier Boxing Champions podcast on Wednesday that the real ‘Bronze Bomber’ had not shown up for their last fight, and likened his performance on the night to that of a zombie. “It’s not over. In my eyes I don’t see Fury as the champion. “He ain’t the champion yet, we’ve still got one more fight left… and I’m looking forward to giving the world the best of Deontay Wilder. “People that know boxing know that that wasn’t Deontay Wilder that night. I was a zombie that night… I wasn’t myself, I felt like a zombie in there,” said the 34-year-old, enjoying some downtime in Alabama. Fury overwhelmed Wilder in their Las Vegas rematch in February, seizing the WBC crown with a seventh round stoppage. They had previously fought to a draw in December 2018. Wilder claimed afterwards that his legs had been weakened by the 45-pound costume of full dark armour and helmet that he wore to the ring to honour Black History Month. “He knows that wasn’t me. I know that wasn’t me. Everyone knows that wasn’t the real Deontay Wilder, something was wrong,” said the American. A third bout between the two heavyweights was set for July but has been pushed back due to the new coronavirus pandemic, with a likely date in October. [Reuters/NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. As fight night nears, boxing legends, world champions, celebrities and more shared their predictions for the highly anticipated rematch between unbeaten WBC Heavyweight World Champion Deontay “The Bronze Bomber” Wilder and undefeated lineal champion Tyson “The Gypsy King” Fury ahead of the historic, mega PPV event this Saturday, February 22… February 20, 2020 In "Sports" Deontay Wilder and Tyson Fury meet once again on February 22 in one of the most anticipated rematches of the year. After their first bout ended in a controversial draw, a rematch was inevitable. Rival British boxer Anthony Joshua believes that Fury is in better shape to beat Wilder than… February 14, 2020 In "Sports" Deontay Wilder still hopes to face Anthony Joshua in a heavyweight unification bout but is happy to hand rival Tyson Fury a rematch following their epic draw. December 2, 2018 In "Sports"