The CEO of 24 String Option, Richard Don Philip, better known as Richard Phillz has urged his fellow Germans to heed to COVID-19 precautionary measures in the country as the one month of lockdown elapses. The 31 year old who is originally from Berlin, Germany, but relocated to the USA after graduation from College commended the Federal Government of Germany for taking the right steps at the right time to tackle COVID-19. “The Coronavirus is indeed a pandemic that has put the world on still but I am hopeful we will overcome. Meanwhile, I advise everyone out there to take precautionary measures. The federal and state governments have strongly recommended that Germans wear face masks when shopping and on public transport, and some states have even made that compulsory. I totally support this move. We have to jointly conquer the COVID-19 battle,” he stated. Richard Phillz who is currently self employed, running a business which deals in trading forex, binary and coaching, sheds more light on his plans and inspiration. He said, “I teach clients how to handle personal trading charts and I has over one million clients worldwide who are currently learning from different trading tricks from me. I plan to take the cryptoworld to the next level before the end of 2020. I am actually working on something but I don’t want to unveil it for now My mentor in the game has always been Grant Cordone. He has learnt lot of business strategies by reading his books and they are quite inspiring. In addition, I work with the best team and well trained traders. I am always very careful while making recruitments. So, my busy schedule does not affect my business in any way. I also need to state this, I rate my country of business; USA to be 100% because it is a good place to actualize dreams and help people achieve their dreams too.” Also speaking on the challenges of running such kind of business, Richard Phillz notes that he had a hard time starting up trade, as he had to live from proceeds he got from selling drugs, “not until I went online to try to learn new business ideas on YouTube. I saved up capital to begin a trade, at first, I made lot of losses but it was all worth it at the end. I made a decision that I wanted to start talking responsibility for my life and do something great with it, so I got off drugs, cleaned up my act, and committed to achieving at astronomical levels.” He continued, “Whatever challenges you have gone through or are currently going through, I want to encourage you to make a decision to take personal responsibility for them and decide, right now, that you want a better life and are willing to do everything you can to turn it around. It’s not easy. Never before have the challenges and risks in life loomed so large; but never before have the potential payoffs been so huge. That’s why they’re called challenges. But that hard work, perseverance, and commitment will lead to great things once you’re on the other side of them. One thing I realized is that if you weren’t up for the challenge, you wouldn’t have it. Each challenge you have is uniquely yours and because of that, you can get past it.” Richard Phillz was born into the family of Mr and Mrs Aterus Phiip. He was the only child of his parents and grew up as good kid. He was not born into a wealthy background but his parents did all they could to make sure their only child becomes successful in life. Richard had his basic education in the public schools in Germany and his high school was in Ramstein high school, Germany. He was one of the most intelligent kids in school and he was fortunate to obtain a scholarship to college. He had his college education at the imperial college in London. After college education, he relocated to the United States of America where he was able to further his education and bagged an Associate degree in the Harvard Business School. Vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari’s  two-week shutdown order in Lagos, Abuja and Ogun State, action in the right direction. March 30, 2020 In "News" The General Secretary, National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE), Comrade Joe Ajaero, has threatened that the union would be forced to embark on strike to protect its members against COVID-19. Ajaero made this known on Wednesday in a letter to the Minister of Power, Mr Sule Mamman, after he reported… March 25, 2020 In "News" LAGOS — As Nigeria yesterday confirmed two new cases of COVID-19,  bringing the number of confirmed cases to 46, Rivers and Kogi states have shut their borders to stop the spread of the virus in their states. March 26, 2020 In "News"