Gov. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara has refurbished the state’s oxygen plant to boost treatment of people that may test positive to the coronavirus pandemic. Speaking at brief handover ceremony of the facility on Friday in Ilorin, AbdulRazaq said the revamped facility would bolster the state capabilities to manage COVID-19 patients who might require ventilators for a lifeline. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the plant had become moribund for over nine years until it was revamped by the governor. NAN also reports that Kwara currently has two COVID-19 cases; both of whom are asymptomatic at the moment receiving treatment at the Response Center in Sobi Specialist Hospital. “This facility comes handy at this time. If for whatever reason any of our patients require oxygen, Kwara does not need to buy oxygen from any private sources or other states. “In fact, the plant’s capacity is such that we can sell to private hospitals and some other states. “Yesterday, we supported the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH) with 13 small cylinders and one big cylinder of oxygen,” AbdulRazaq said. The governor commended the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for helping the state to recover looted funds which had become useful in the campaign against COVID-19. AbdulRazaq said the recovered funds strengthened Kwara’s ability to put in place necessary facilities, among other counter-COVID-19 efforts. “We have bought five new ambulances (three on the ground and two are on the way). “We have 10 ventilators now and we expect to have 30 by the end of the month and that’s one of the highest in the country today. “We now have a mobile x-ray machine too,” the governor added. The governor said the recovered loot became useful in the face of dwindling allocations arising from the global oil crisis. He said the government had turned around the Sobi Specialist Hospital which is now the COVID-19 response center of the state. The governor said the administration was working on having an isolation centre in Offa after which another would be created in General Hospital, Kaiama. According to Ben Babatunde, the plant manager, the oxygen now has 93 per cent purity level and can fill 24 (7mm) oxygen cylinders in one day. He said the facility had only worked for 56,156 hours (six years four months) cumulatively since it was established in 2004. Vanguard Nigeria News By Demola Akinyemi Governor Abdulrazaq Abdulrahman of Kwara state on Tuesday said, about 75 persons who had contact with the two COVID-19 patients in the state are under contact-tracing in order to curb the spread of the infectious disease in the state. Governor Abdulrazaq speaking at a press conference… April 7, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State, yesterday, confessed he had gone into self-isolation for the mandatory 14 days, having returned from the National Economic Council, NEC, meeting in Abuja on March 19, 2020, declaring he was now fine. April 7, 2020 In "News" Ilorin—Governor Abdurahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State, yesterday, directed all civil servants in the state to work from home from today. The governor equally banned all gathering of people above 25 anywhere in the state among other measures to prevent the  spread of the corona virus,  COVID-19. March 23, 2020 In "News"