The Nigerian Armed Forces has produced a digital mechanical ventilator known as ” DICOVENT” as well as several other COVID-19 essential and life saving equipment to manage the pandemic. The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. John Enenche, made this known on Monday at a news conference on updates on preparedness of the armed forces to combat convid-19 in Abuja. Enenche disclosed that these Personal Protective Equipment (PPE),mechanical ventilators and other materials to manage the Pandemic, were produced by the Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON). The coordinator said that aside the digital mechanical ventilator, the DICON also produced over 1,500 dozens of DICSanz, a high-quality hand sanitisers, thousands of high quality non permeable Personal Protective Equipment kit. According to Enenche, the ventilator had undergone thorough scrutiny and assessment by specialists from top ranging hospitals and experts in the country including Cedar crest Hospital Abuja, 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital Kaduna. ” It is important to mention that while DICOVENT may not be able to meet the high demands of critical patients, it can be used for Continuous Mandatory Ventilation (CMV) and Intermittent Positive Pressure Ventilation ( IPPV). ” It can also be used for invasive ventilation and non-invasive ventilation using an endotracheal tube and mask respectively. ” Suffice to note that these inventions by DICON including those by other military institutions of the Nigerian Army, Navy and Air force as well as Nigerian Defence Academy have given bright hope to Nigeria healthcare infrastructure on the fight against COVID 19,” he said. He explained that  over 1,500 dozens of DICSanz, ” a high-quality hand sanitisers  were produced under very strict environmental conditions, as requested by the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt.- Gen TY Buratai for supply to troops of the Nigerian Army.” According to him , the product is at the last stage of National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control ( NAFDAC)registration in line with extant due diligence provisions. ” Furthermore, DICON has responded to the directive by the Minister of Defence Maj.- Gen Bashir Magashi (rtd) to support the indigenous capacity of Nigeria, to support Medical workers by producing thousands of high quality non permeable Personal Protective Equipment kit. ” Each unit of these kits consists of standardised gowns, face shield and nose masks. ” They are currently being produced in large quantities for use by Kaduna State Government and other national stakeholders,” he said. ” Let me at this juncture inform you that the efforts of DICON in producing these array of COVID-19 equipment has been assessed, commended and approved by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 Mr Boss Mustapha. “The  Minister of Health, Prof. Osagie Ehanire and Permanent Secretary; General Service Office (GSO) Sir Olusegun Adekunle.” He said the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, had directed all the Armed Forces to liase with DICON for mass production of all prototypes of COVID-19 PPEs for national application. Speaking, after the unveiling of all the samples of COVID-19 essential and life saving equipment, Maj.- Gen Victor Ezugwu, the Director – General of DICON, said the hand sanitisers  were affordable, adding ” We are not profit oriented.” By Kingsley Omonobi The Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria, DICON, has produced a low-cost mechanical ventilator— DICOVENT— capable of using electricity and rechargeable batteries, if need be, to help in the treatment of coronavirus patients. Also produced by DICON, using 100 percent local materials, are Personnel Protective Equipment, PPEs, for… April 20, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Kingsley Omonobi As part of its continued support towards combating the COVID-19 pandemic, the Nigerian Air Force, NAF, on Friday, airlifted medical equipment and supplies donated by the Turkish government to Nigeria from Murtala Mohammed International Airport, MMIA, Lagos, to Nnmadi Azikiwe International Airport, NAIA, Abuja. Director of NAF… April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Nigeria has received a consignment of 50 ventilators and Personal Protective Equipment, PPE, from the United Nations Development Programme, UNDP. UNDP Nigeria revealed this in a tweet on its official handle, noting that the materials were bought with funds from the COVID-19 Basket Fund for Nigeria. According to the UNDP… April 16, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"