The NHS hero who saved Boris Johnson’s life and stood by his bedside when things could have gone ‘either way’ has been pictured. The Prime Minister spent the last week in St Thomas’s Hospital – including three nights in intensive care – being treated for the virus. Shortly after he was discharged, Mr Johnson released a video thanking the medical professionals who aided his recovery, and reserved special praise for Luis from Portugal and Jenny from New Zealand. MailOnline can reveal that senior staff nurse Luis Pitarma, is the medical professional who cared for the Prime Minister as he battled the virus. The 29-year-old, born in Aveiro, just 50 kilometres from Porto, is thought to have moved to London in 2014 after completing his medical qualifications in Lisbon, before taking up a job at the hospital. The medic was thanked today by the President of Portugal Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa in a telephone call. In the video message posted this afternoon, Mr Johnson praised Mr Pitarma, Jenny who was from ‘Invercargill on the South Island to be exact’ for his life-saving care. He said: “The reason in the end my body did start to get enough oxygen was because for every second of the night they were watching and they were thinking and they were caring and making the interventions I needed.” Mr Johnson also anotherthanked a group of nurses in the video released this afternoon, he said: ‘I am going to forget some names, so forgive me, but I want to thank Po Ling and Shannon and Emily and Angel and Connie and Becky and Rachael and Nicky and Ann. The Prime Minister then named two particular health professionals who “stood by my bedside for 48 hours when things could have gone either way.” He added: “They are Jenny from New Zealand – Invercargill on the South Island to be exact – and Luis from Portugal – near Porto.” The lung specialists at St Thomas’ Hospital are some of the best in the UK and the hospital now has a dedicated team set up to handle COVID-19 patients. It was previously revealed that one of the doctors overseeing Mr Johnson’s care was leading lung specialist Dr Richard Leach, a senior clinician at Guy’s and St Thomas’ Hospital. According to MailOnline, Dr. Leach has worked at the central London hospital trust since 1994, and at King Edward VII Hospital since 2016. His encyclopedic knowledge of the respiratory system has even been laid down in five leading textbooks. While Dr Leach had reportedly assumed ultimate responsibility over Mr Boris Johnson’s treatment, hospital sources warned against exaggerating how hands-on a role he was playing. Another medical professional thought to be overseeing the Prime Minister while he spent time at the hospital was Dr Luigi Camporota, a consultant in intensive care medicine. Just last week, Dr Camporota, held a seminar explaining to other hospitals the best way to attach a coronavirus patient to a ventilator. In a tweet following her fiance’s release from hospital, Carrie Symonds said there had been some ‘very dark’ times in the past week. Boris Johnson, who was wearing a suit, will not be returning to work immediately on doctors’ orders, instead recuperating at Chequers, his country residence in Buckinghamshire. In the video footage he also said the NHS would be ‘unconquerable’ in the face of the coronavirus pandemic. He said: “I have today left hospital after a week in which the NHS has saved my life, no question. “It’s hard to find the words to express my debt – but before I come to that, I want to thank everyone in the entire UK for the effort and the sacrifice you have made and are making.” He thanked people for continuing to socially distance and to self-isolate, saying: “I do believe that your efforts are worth it, and are daily proving their worth.” While he said the ‘the struggle is by no means over’, he appeared to offer some hope by adding that progress is being made. He said: “We are making progress in this national battle because the British public formed a human shield around this country’s greatest national asset – our National Health Service.” Mr Johnson said he had personally “seen the pressure the NHS is under’ and listed the essential staff including cleaners, cooks and all healthcare workers who he said had shown ‘personal courage’ by continuing to work and ‘risking this deadly virus.” He said: “It is thanks to that courage, that devotion, that duty and that love that our NHS has been unbeatable.” ALSO READ: Boris Johnson discharged from hospital after coronavirus battle Shortly after news of his release, Ms Symonds had tweeted to pay tribute to the ‘magnificent NHS’. She said: “I will never, ever be able to repay you and I will never stop thanking you. “There were times last week that were very dark indeed. My heart goes out to all those in similar situations, worried sick about their loved ones. “Thank you also to everyone who sent such kind messages of support. Today I’m feeling incredibly lucky.” Stanley Johnson said he was delighted by the latest update, telling the PA news agency he hopes his son ‘does not overdo it’ while recovering at Chequers. Mr Johnson, who is at his farm in Exmoor, said: “I am absolutely delighted to hear the news that Boris Johnson has left hospital – it is wonderful news. “Of course it is not only me who is delighted but the whole family. “I am especially pleased that he will now be able to be with his fiancee Carrie, and if they head to Chequers I very much hope he doesn’t overdo it.” He also praised the NHS for the care they gave his son. He added: “I realise now – I think the whole country realises – how close he came to a crisis situation and it is wonderful he has come out of that crisis. “It is wonderful that the national health service was able to help him and I think he has also paid tribute to them. “Our thoughts are with everybody, not only those who are fighting the battle against coronavirus, but those who are suffering from it.” Dr Ian Abbs, chief executive at Guy’s and St Thomas’, paid tribute to hospital staff. He said: “It is a great credit to the exceptional professionalism of clinical teams, as well as everyone in the wider organisation, that we have been able to care for the Prime Minister so effectively, whilst continuing to deliver equally high standards of care to all of our patients.” He said thoughts must “turn immediately to those who still need our help at this time’ and reiterated the plea for people to ‘stay home to help us save lives and protect the NHS.”  Boris Johnson came close to death as he desperately fought coronavirus in an intensive care unit, his friends revealed last night. After rallying, the Prime Minister told them that he owed his life to the doctors and nurses at St Thomas' Hospital in London, adding: 'I can't thank them enough.'… April 12, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Carrie Symonds, the pregnant fiancée of Boris Johnson, has praised the medical staff, who helped the British Prime Minister come through COVID-19, adding that there were “very dark” times last week. “I cannot thank our magnificent NHS enough. “The staff at St Thomas’ Hospital have been incredible. “I will never,… April 12, 2020 In "Foreign" Boris Johnson came close to death as he desperately fought coronavirus in an intensive care unit, his friends revealed last night. After rallying, the Prime Minister told them that he owed his life to the doctors and nurses at St Thomas' Hospital in London, adding: "I can't thank them enough."… April 11, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"