ABUJA—PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari and the American President, Donald Trump on Tuesday exchanged views on how to successfully combat the dreaded Covid-19 pandemic. The two leaders also commiserated with each other on fatalities in their countries, caused by the Coronavirus pandemic. This was disclosed in a statement issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina. Adesina in the statement explained that the American President, Mr. Trump called President Buhari on the telephone on Tuesday afternoon. According to the statement, “They also shared ideas on how to successfully combat the health emergency. ” President Buhari expressed condolences to the government and people of the United States over the fatalities recorded, and equally expressed worry at the high rate of deaths recorded across the world. ” The associated negative impacts of the pandemic on the world’s economy also came up for discussion. ” The Nigerian President lauded his American counterpart for the various initiatives adopted by his government to contain the further spread of the virus across the United States. ” He indicated Nigeria’s readiness to cooperate with the United States to fight this common unseen enemy. ” President Buhari informed that Nigeria had taken a number of proactive measures to contain the spread of the COVID-19 across the country.” Adesina also said that President Buhari welcomed the valuable friendship and expressed appreciation to President Trump for reaching out at this time. Vanguard News Nigeria US President, Donald Trump on Tuesday, had a telephone conversation with Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari over the coronavirus pandemic in the country. This was revealed by Lai Mohammed, minister of information, at the media briefing of the presidential task force on COVID-19. He said the US president promised to send… April 28, 2020 In "News" U.S. President Donald Trump ordered his government to give support to coronavirus-hit Italy, in a memorandum published late on Friday. “(Italy), one of our closest and oldest Allies, is being ravaged by the COVID-19 pandemic,” Trump wrote in the memo. Although the U.S. government’s “first and foremost responsibility is to… April 11, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja Following rising cases and deaths of Nigerians from the deadly Cornonavirus, COVID-19, a Civil Society Organisation, CSO, Concerned Nigerians, Thursday, urged President Muhammadu Buhari on the regular broadcast to Nigerians on situation report. This was contained in a statement signed by the Convener, CN, Deji… April 23, 2020 In "News"