The Niger government has announced a partial extension of the lockdown of the state for another two weeks in order to achieve the desired result of minimising the spread of the Coronavirus. Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger made this disclosure to newsmen after a joint Executive Council and COVID-19 Taskforce meeting in Minna on Monday. He explained the decision reached during the meeting was that “people would now be allowed to move within their immediate environment with compliance with the physical distancing and wearing of the face mask. Bello said that there would no vehicular movement during the lockdown days except those on essential services, adding that a window period such as April 28, May 1 and May 3 are given within the week for people to go out and purchase food stuff. He warned against social gatherings and religious activities in Niger within the lockdown window period. The governor said that all schools, offices and major markets remained closed, adding that only neighborhood markets would be allowed to operate under strict compliance of preventive measures. He added that interstate travels remained banned as violators of the order would be quarantined for two weeks. Bello directed the task force to ensure maximum enforcement of the order at both state and local government levels. He said the taskforce should liaise with chairmen of each council to ensure compliance of the order at their respective council areas. He disclosed that the second round of distribution of palliative across the 274 wards of the state would commence within the week. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. By Mike Ebonugwo, Olasunkanmi Akoni, Levinus Nwabughiogu & James Ogunnaike Even with the dreaded coronavirus, COVID-19 lockdown, it is obvious that not even the fear of death by the disease can keep Nigerians locked up or restricted from moving out to pursue their daily bread or engage in other activities… April 8, 2020 In "Features" The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), in Niger has appealed to the State Government to extend the approved daily operational deadline given petroleum products marketers to sell fuel to motorists in the state. April 3, 2020 In "News" Residents across the states in the country have expressed frustrations and anger following the sit-at- home order by the governments in order to contain the coronavirus pandemic. At the banks, motor parks, markets, among other places, many people were seen complaining about the agonizing situation they were passing through. They… April 11, 2020 In "News"