The top ten contestants who made it to the semi-final are tasked with securing one of the six spots in the finale. With N150,000,000 (One Hundred and Fifty Million Naira) worth of prizes in cash, a brand-new car and a management contract up for grabs, the contestants are undoubtedly ready to battle it out. Voice coach and award-winning artist Waje and the legendary musician Sound Sultan visited Bootcamp, and they shared some tips with the contestants on how to deliver flawless performances. The theme for the Judges Stage Show was “Best of Both Worlds”.  For the first performance, each contestant worked to harmonise with an opponent performing a duet. Later on, the contestants took to the stage as solo artists, staking their claim to the finale. After the duets, the competition got undeniably fierce as the ten contestants took to the stage once more for their solo performance, in a bid to bag one of the six spots in the final. Firefly, who was amongst the bottom six last week, levelled up with her performance of Owanbe by Simi. Kitay kept the audience entertained as he sang his heart out to Iyawo Mi by Timi Dakolo. The celebrity judges felt the pressure of having to evict four contestants. Sadly, SlyWonder, Olutunz, Mimi Victor, and Gabriel Songz were evicted from Bootcamp, with Loven, Promyze, Kita, Ada Gold, Firefly and Anderson completing the judges’ final line-up. VANGUARD By Ayo Onikoyi With just four unoccupied slots in boot camp, hundreds of music talents in Owerri and Onitsha fought for the chance of a lifetime, hoping to secure one of the two slots allocated to each city in Access The Stars. Sponsored by Access Bank and the premium alcoholic… March 21, 2020 In "Entertainment" By Ayo Onikoyi It was an emotional evening for thousands of viewers as the first evictions from Access The Stars reality music show occurred over the weekend. Three contestants—Janet, Anna James and Amarachi—left the show after intense competition. Having scaled through the regional auditions, all 13 successful contestants were finally… March 28, 2020 In "Entertainment" Although it was a tough call, the judges have announced both James Olusoji and Kiskin Sylvester as the chosen performers from Abeokuta, by unanimous decision, as well as Charles Akinloye and Adesewa Solagbade from Lagos. All four contestants successfully made it to the next phase of the competition — The… March 9, 2020 In "Entertainment"