The Delta State Government has urged the public, particularly Deltans, to discountenance video clips purportedly on Warri residents defying the stay-at-home order of the state government over the Coronavirus pandemic and confronting security operatives, saying it was concocted and therefore, fake. The Commissioner for Information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, made the call in a statement on Friday in Asaba and said that the concocted videos were not a true representation of happenings in Warri or any part of Delta in the last 48 hours. According to him, the videos in circulation are figments of the imagination of a few disgruntled elements bent at pitching the people against the state government. Aniagwu stated that the purported video of two military personnel threatening the residents of Warri was an arrangement of those who didn’t want the peace of the state, adding that the video was not a true representation of Nigerian military officers who knew the implication of threatening citizens with such an illicit video. He added that the military command whose responsibility it was to deploy personnel, had debunked the video material. The commissioner, therefore, called on the public, especially Deltans, to disregard the video as it was the machination of those bent at causing disaffection between Deltans and military authorities. “Let me thank Deltans for their cooperation so far and urge them to discard the concocted videos aimed at causing disaffection between the military and Deltans. “There is no report of killing of soldiers in Warri or any other part of Delta”. “The concocted videos were aimed at causing disaffection between Deltans and the security agencies carrying out lawful duties”. “While we appeal to our people to remain law-abiding, it is imperative to state that videos trending in social media are not a true reflection of happenings in the state”. “We, therefore, call on our people to discard the videos and continue to remain indoors as directed by the government to enable us to curb the possible outbreak and spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state”. “As a government, we will continue to appeal to the security agencies to apply rules of engagement as practiced in most democracies as they carry out their lawful duties,” he added. Vanguard Delta State Government has called for an investigation into the alleged killing of a 28 year old Joseph Pessu in Warri on Thursday. April 2, 2020 In "News" THE Delta  State Government, yesterday, said it will spend N19.1 billion to complete the section ‘A’ of the Ughelli/Asaba Road dulalization project and expressed worry over the failed portion of the Warri/Benin Road. September 4, 2019 In "News" As Deltans gear up to celebrate the 27th Anniversary of the creation of Delta State on Monday 27th August, 2018, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has said the success of his administration has been from the support and peaceful disposition of Deltans in the various communities in the state. August 26, 2018 In "News"