UGHELLI – IN a bid to forestall attacks on their community by armed herdsmen, youths from Oteri community in Ughelli North local government area of Delta State, chased away some herdsmen and their cows from the community. The incident which resulted to pandemonium in the community, witnessed the cows and their herders scampering into different directions in the community for safety amidst a gridlock along the Oteri/Ovwor road. The cows numbering close to a hundred were chased from the pipeline axis of Oteri old road towards the new road, thereby grounding all forms of vehicular movements along both roads. Speaking on the reasons for their actions, yesterday, one of the youths who simply gave his name as Emurotu, said they are trying to forestall a similar occurrence of suspected herdsmen attacks in Uwheru in their community. He said: “We discovered that they (herdsmen) have started establishing themselves in the hinterlands of Oteri community just as they did in Uwheru and we do not want a repeat of what happened in Uwheru to happen here in Oteri. “As a result of this, after several appeals on them to leave the community failed, we had to mobilize ourselves and chased them away from Oteri community. Several communities around Oteri including Olomo and others have placed ban on grazing activities in their communities and we believe it is as a result of that they are moving into Oteri. “We will continue to keep vigil particularly in the pipeline axis of Oteri to ensure that they do not return to our lands.” VANGUARD Worried by the occupation of their farmlands by armed herdsmen, indigenes of Iyede Kingdom, Isoko North Local Government Area, Delta State, yesterday, barricaded the Ekiugbo-Iyede axis of the Ughelli-Asaba expressway, demanding their vacation from their communities. August 16, 2017 In "News" UGHELLI— HUNDREDS of women from Ewu-Urhobo community in Ughelli South Local Government Area of Delta State, yesterday, barricaded the Ewu/Ughelli road in protest over alleged attacks on them by herdsmen in their community. October 30, 2018 In "News" What infuriated the women that morning was that a housewife, who went early to the farm, was allegedly attacked by herdsmen for refusing their sexual advances February 12, 2017 In "Special Report"