Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has described the death of Mallam Abba Kyari, the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, as shocking, painful and a monumental loss to the nation, Nigerians, the government of Maiduguri and the Kyari family. Kyari, who died in the early hours of Saturday, has been buried in Abuja. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, condoled with President Buhari and Nigerians on the demise. According to Sanwo-Olu: ‘‘I received the sad news of the death of Mallam Abba Kyari, an astute public servant with a heavy heart. Mallam Kyari was a dedicated Nigerian, a deeply committed and patriotic citizen, who contributed remarkably to the smooth and successful running of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. “Kyari was a conscientious, competent, cerebral and outstanding administrator whose life traversed the fields of law, journalism, banking, and politics,’’ Sanwo-Olu noted that his death came at a time the country was desirous of more deeply patriotic individuals to contribute selflessly towards the development of the country. The governor, therefore, urged President Buhari to take solace in the quality of life lived by Kyari and his exemplary contribution to the current administration. He said: “As human beings, the death of a close ally will be painful and devastating, but we must always look back at the beautiful moments one shared with the deceased as well as the legacies left behind by such individual. Therefore, Mr. President should find comfort in the good works done by the late Kyari.” Sanwo-Olu said the country and the immediate community of the deceased would remember him for many years to come. The governor prayed to Almighty God to grant the soul of late Abba Kyari eternal rest and the family the grace to bear the irreparable loss. vanguard By Henry Umoru FORMER Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, has described the death of Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari, as a heavy loss to the Presidency and Nigeria, which he gave his all. Ekweremadu joined other well-meaning Nigerians in mourning the late Chief… April 18, 2020 In "News" DELTA State Governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa has expressed sadness on the passing away of the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari, saying he was pained by the fact that the elder statesman died of the COVID-19. April 18, 2020 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi The ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, has mourned the death of Mallam Abba Kyari, "Chief of Staff and one of the closest advisers to President Muhammadu Buhari", lamenting that the president has lost his strong right-hand man. APC in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre… April 18, 2020 In "News"