The Ekiti government has identified the fourth case of coronavirus in the state as a medical doctor. The government said on Tuesday that the medical doctor was working with a private clinic before contracting the virus while treating the third index case, a 29-year old pregnant woman. The Commissioner for Health, Dr Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, who made these known to newsmen in Ado Ekiti, said only one doctor tested positive, with 15 others turning out negative among the samples taken to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. ” We have one doctor who tested positive and he is being treated at the isolation centre, but others were negative,” he said. Reacting to the development, the Nigerian Medical Association(NMA) in the state expressed shock, calling for adequate protection for medical workers in the state through provision of life insurance and other measures. The association, however, expressed happiness over the news that 15 other doctors working with the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido Ekiti, tested negative, describing this as cheering news. The NMA State Chairman, Dr Tunji Omotayo, also said there was need for government to boost the welfare of health workers working on the frontline in fighting the coronavirus. NAN Vanguard Nigeria News ADO-EKITI—THE Ekiti State government, yesterday, confirmed the death of an American, who died of the Corona virus. It also disclosed the  positive case of the virus in a patient in the State. March 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" LAGOS — As Nigeria yesterday confirmed two new cases of COVID-19,  bringing the number of confirmed cases to 46, Rivers and Kogi states have shut their borders to stop the spread of the virus in their states. March 26, 2020 In "News" By Rasheed Sobowale The Ekiti State Governor and Chairman of Nigeria Governors' Forum (NGF), Kayode Fayemi, on Friday stated that his coronavirus test result revealed he is negative of the disease. Fayemi who had earlier announced his self-isolation after taking the test on Wednesday said he "was in meetings with… March 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"