Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, who spoke while in self-isolation, has assured the citizens of the state and other Nigerians that he is stable and doing well. This came as the governor assured the people of the state of relief materials to cushion the effect of the lockdown of the state, following the outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The governor spoke from self-isolation after testing positive to COVID-19, in a short video sent to the people of the state and Nigerians in general. A statement by the Special Adviser to the Governor on New Media, Lawal Muazu, informed that Governor Bala commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the measures taken to contain the virus in the country. ALSO READ: COVID 19: Bauchi govt imposes 14 days lockdown Bala said: “My dear people of Bauchi State and people of Nigeria, I am coming to thank you and most importantly to thank Allah and our leaders, especially Ulamas, supporters and Nigerians who have shown sympathy to me. “By nature of this isolation, after I tested positive to coronavirus, by the grace of Allah, up till this moment, I have no symptoms of the virus. “I have remained very stable at the moment. I think I am very very well. But I will continue to be in isolation to comply with regulations of the physicians.” The governor, who expressed satisfaction with performance of the state Task Force Committee on COVID-19 headed by the Deputy Governor, Senator Baba Tela, said already governors of Nigeria had agreed to support citizens at this period of need. The Bauchi governor added: “Our team in the state, under the chairmanship of Senator Baba Tela, is doing good. So far so good, we are discussing with our colleagues (governors), and I must to thank our President for the palliative for Nigerians at this critical time of coronavirus. “I am still leading very well and I appreciate your prayers and support. I never knew I have so much of my people till now. This isolation has been putting some burden of responsibility on me. May Allah get us out of this calamity.” He assured that when discharged from isolation, he would reflect and come up with solutions to the challenges facing the people of the state. Vanguard By Charly Agwam, Bauchi Governor of Bauchi state, Bala Mohammed has assured citizens of the state of his readiness to provide them with relief materials to cushion the hardship that might come with the coronavirus disease and the lockdown order. Governor Mohammed spoke from his isolation in a short video… April 1, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" ABUJA — Wife of the President, Hajia Aisha Buhari, yesterday said there should be total lock-down of the country to prevent further spread of coronavirus currently ravaging the world. March 24, 2020 In "News" Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, on Friday  assured the people of the state that he is very sound and in good spirit despite testing positive for Coronavirus. The governor stated this in a goodwill message issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr Mukhtar Gidado, in Bauchi. The governor… March 27, 2020 In "News"