President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday, in a nationwide broadcast, declared a nationwide curfew in the 36 states from 8pm to 6am, including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The president also approved a phased and gradual easing of the lockdown in Lagos and Ogun states as well as the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. He said “Furthermore, new nationwide measures are to be introduced as follows; “There will be an overnight curfew from 8pm to 6am. This means all movements will be prohibited during this period except for essential services; “There will be a ban on non-essential inter-state passenger travel until further notice; “Partial and controlled interstate movement of goods and services will be allowed for the movement of goods and services from producers to consumers; and “We will strictly ensure the mandatory use of face masks or coverings in public in addition to maintaining physical distancing and personal hygiene. Furthermore, the restrictions on social and religious gatherings shall remain in place. State Governments, corporate organisations and philanthropists are encouraged to support the production of cloth masks for citizens. He said for the avoidance of doubt, the lockdown in the FCT, Lagos and Ogun States shall remain in place until these new ones come into effect on Monday, 4th May 2020. Vanguard News Nigeria ADDRESS BY H.E. MUHAMMADU BUHARI, PRESIDENT OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA ON THE CUMULATIVE LOCKDOWN ORDER OF LAGOS AND OGUN STATES AS WELL AS THE FEDERAL CAPITAL TERRITORY ON COVID- 19 PANDEMIC AT THE STATE HOUSE, ABUJA, MONDAY, 27th APRIL, 2020 1. Fellow Nigerians 2. I will start by… April 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" ….promises to make facemasks made of local fabrics available Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has extended the movement restriction and curfew imposed in the state by two weeks, following the expiration of the initial order on Monday night. The restriction will now end on April 27th. The new directive… April 13, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti on Monday extended the restriction of movement and curfew imposed in the state by another two weeks. April 13, 2020 In "News"