The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Malam Mele Kyari, says Nigeria would no longer pay subsidy on petrol with the ongoing global oil price decline. Kyari disclosed this in a statement signed by NNPC spokesman, Dr Kennie Obateru, in Abuja on Monday. The NNPC boss said this while he featured as a guest in a morning television programme. “There is no subsidy and it is zero forever, going forward there will be no resort to either subsidy or under-recovery of any nature. “NNPC will play in the marketplace, it will just be another marketer in the space. But we will be there for the country to sustain the security of supply at market price,” he said. Kyari stated that NNPC was a transparent organisation, saying the National Oil Company was probably the only company in the world that published its monthly financial and operations reports. He said the corporation was proud of the initiative and assured Nigerians of NNPC’s commitment and observance of transparency and accountability in all its transactions. He disclosed that as of April 5, Nigeria produced 2.3 million barrels of crude oil, including condensates. He maintained that the plan was for the country to ramp up production to three million barrels per day in the nearest future. Kyari said Nigeria was endowed with premium crude oil grades supplied to Europe, Asia and India. He added that notwithstanding the COVID-19 pandemic which had affected demand and supply fundamentals, all Nigeria’s export terminals were still in operations. “The key issue in the crude oil business is market fundamentals of demand/supply. I believe COVID-19 will subside and countries will come back to life. “I don’t see the oil price going below the 20 dollars we saw last week. I’m certain, all things being equal, the oil price will bounce back,” he added. The NNPC’s helmsman assured Nigerians of ample supply and distribution of petroleum products. He explained that in spite of the Coronavirus pandemic, the corporation had in stock about 2.6 billion litres of petroleum products that could serve the country’s energy needs for the next two months. He stated that the NNPC was collaborating with all relevant stakeholders to ensure that the supply and distribution value chain was not disrupted to guarantee energy security for the country. On Industry contribution to containing the spread of Coronavirus, he said that they would construct at least two hospitals and a world-class diagnostic centre in each geopolitical zone. He said that the gesture was part of the sector’s contribution to building a robust healthcare system for Nigeria. He noted that the centres were additions to the 250 temporary bed facilities that it had offered to support the government’s efforts in the fight against Coronavirus pandemic. He said the hospitals and the world-class diagnostics centres would be an addition to the regular Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives of the Upstream and Downstream companies, as well as service providers operating in the Oil and Gas Industry. Kyari said that all commitments from the Industry would be collected in kind and handed over to the Presidential Taskforce for the Control of Coronavirus. Vanguard The new Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, yesterday, promised to fix the country’s four refineries before the end of May 2023. July 9, 2019 In "News" The Group Managing Director of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Malam Mele Kyari, has reiterated his commitment to transparency and accountability in the operations of the corporation. September 4, 2019 In "News" Malam Mele Kyari, the Group Managing Director (GMD), Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) says the corporation has begun repair of its damaged Abura Crude Trunk line. August 31, 2019 In "News"