Despite the lockdown order by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, commercial drivers and commuters have continued to ply the Ughelli-Warri route along the East-West road in grouse violation of the order by the governor. Investigations by Vanguard revealed that passengers now pay as much as N1, 000 depending on the bargaining power of the passenger as against N200 before the lockdown reflecting a 500 percent increase in the fare. The drivers, particularly position themselves at the busy Otovwodo junction, Ekuigbo junction in Ughelli metropolis. However, a trip by this correspondent from Ughelli to Warri yesterday, revealed that the same is the case at the PTI junction and Effurun roundabout in Uvwie local government area of the state as commuters were able to embark on inter-state journeys despite the lockdown. The trip from Ughelli to Warri further revealed that despite the presence of security operatives who mount roadblocks along the road to monitor the compliance level of the lockdown, these commercial drivers were able make it through after parting with cash for the operatives. Meanwhile, a journalist with Urhobo Voice newspaper, Choice Grandball, was Saturday night assaulted by a team of policemen from the Ughelli Police Area Command while monitoring the dusk to dawn curfew imposed by the governor alongside the lockdown. The assault on the journalist will be the second incident in a space of four days in what the state chairman, Mike Ikeogwu described as “barbaric in an era where democratic tenets and freedom of the press are expected to be held in high esteem.” Vanguard News Nigeria. CALABAR — Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State, has warned that since there  will be life after the COVID-19 pandemic, there was the need for government to protect not just lives but also livelihoods. April 14, 2020 In "News" Perez Brisibe The Imams for the Ughelli main Mosque and Okorodafe Mosque were both invited by the Police following Friday Jumat services in the mosques despite the 14-day lockdown ordered by the Delta State Government. Hundreds of Muslims had despite the lockdown, stormed the Mosques in flagrant disregard of the… April 3, 2020 In "News" Perez Brisibe, Ughelli Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, has condemned the reported killing of a man in Warri by soldiers implanting the lockdown order by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State. The victim, Joseph Pessu, was allegedly killed at the Ubeji community while attempting to escape… April 2, 2020 In "News"