The Edo State Government has commissioned a 30-bed isolation centre at the Stella Obasanjo Hospital, Benin City, as it ramps up efforts to curtail the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). The Edo State Deputy Governor and Chairman, Technical Sub-committee on COVID-19 Response, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu, who commissioned the facility, said the centre was built in record 12 days and would serve as a major centre for treatment of COVID-19 patients in Edo State. According to him, “The Edo State Government furnished the facility with world-class medical equipment. The medical personnel at the facility are well-trained to manage the condition of patients, who develop complications from coronavirus. “I want to assure Edo people that we are on top of the situation and have prepared for the worst but pray that the worst will not come.” Shaibu used the opportunity to express appreciation to the health workers who he described as heroes, who are making serious sacrifices on the frontline, attending to infected COVID-19 patients. According to him, “We want to salute our healthcare workers who are the true heroes, leaving their families to work on the frontline and ensuring that those affected by the disease get well.” Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Peculiar Ultimate Concerns Ltd, Engr. Adeleke Olanrewaju, who constructed the building, said the facility was built to international standard. “This structure was built in record time of 12 days to strengthen the government in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic in the state. “Government can’t fight this scourge alone and need support to win the war. We offer our support to the government this period, as we have seen that they have done so much in the fight to curtail the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The facility here can be compared to the ones in Lagos and Abuja,” he said. Vanguard The Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr Patrick Okundia has disclosed that the newly built, ultra-modern Stella Obasanjo Hospital Isolation Center (SOHIC) is ready to receive cases of COVID-19 in the state. In a chat with journalists in Benin City, the commissioner said health workers and other medical personnel have… April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Develops economic stimulus package for vulnerable persons The Edo State Government has ordered the evacuation of patients from the Stella Obasanjo Hospital, converting the facility into a full-blown holding and isolation centre to manage different stages of cases of coronavirus (COVID-19). The Deputy Governor of Edo State and Chairman, Technical… March 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Edo State Government has opened a new ultra-modern 30-bed isolation facility at the Stella Obasanjo Hospital, Benin City, equipped with 15 ventilators, oxygen concentrators, dialysis and mobile x-ray machines, among other equipment to manage cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state. Deputy Governor and Chairman, Technical Sub-committee on… April 18, 2020 In "News"