IN an effort to stem the spread of coronavirus because of the proximity from the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Nasarawa State government has imposed a 24-hour on Karu local government of the state with effect from Thursday (today). Vehicular movements have also been banned from 8 pm to 6 am across the state. The state Governor, Abdullahi Sule, announced this Wednesday evening while addressing journalists in Government House, Lafia. According to the governor, “this is particularly necessary, considering the influx of people from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, which has been locked down as part of measures to control the spread of the pandemic. “It is for this reason and in line with the provision of the Nasarawa State Dangerous Infectious Diseases (Emergency Prevention) Regulations, 2020, as well as the advice of the Nasarawa State High Powered Committee on COVID-19, the following measures come into immediate effect: “Enforcement of a 24-hour lockdown in Karu Local Government Area with effect from 6:00 pm of Thursday, 2nd April 2020 for 14 days in the first instance; Entry into Nasarawa State is hereby restricted to between 6:00 pm to 6:00 am and all persons coming into the State shall continue to be screened at the designated check-points/mobile clinics; He said movement in Lafia, the State capital and other urban centres are hereby restricted from 8:00 pm to 6:00 am with effect from Thursday, 2nd April 2020 adding that all markets are to remain closed except sellers of food items and medicaments outside the markets except in Karu Local Government Area where there is a 24-hour lockdown; He urged the people of the Nasarawa to continue to maintain the social distancing directive of the Federal Government of Nigeria and other measures to prevent the spread of the pandemic; All civil servants from GL. 01 – 12 are to remain at home except those on essential services until further notice; while security personnel are hereby directed to ensure the enforcement of these directives. He said a palliative committee has been constituted to ensure that the citizens of the State are provided with necessary succour during this trying moments. “It would be recalled that I addressed you last week on the outbreak of COVID-19 in Nigeria. During my address, I made a commitment to update you as the event unfolds in our collective determination to safeguard the lives of our people,” he said. Vanguard In an effort to stem the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, Nasarawa State government has imposed a 24-hour curfew on Karu Local Government Area of the state with effect from Thursday because of its proximity to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. April 1, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Ban vehicular movement By David Odama - Lafia In an effort to stem the spread of coronavirus because of the proximity from the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Nasarawa State government has imposed a 24 hours on Karu local government of the state with effect from Thursday this week. Vehicular movement… April 1, 2020 In "News" LAGOS — As Nigeria yesterday confirmed two new cases of COVID-19,  bringing the number of confirmed cases to 46, Rivers and Kogi states have shut their borders to stop the spread of the virus in their states. March 26, 2020 In "News"