Hundreds of people have been added to Egypt’s terrorism list in recent years The decision, published in the official gazette, stated that their “placement on the terrorism list will be for a period of five years”. Elaimy — a key figure of Egypt’s 2011 popular uprising that toppled longtime president Hosni Mubarak — was arrested in June 2019. Also put on the list was Ramy Shaath, a prominent activist and the son of veteran Palestinian politician Nabil Shaath, who holds Egyptian citizenship and was arrested two months after Elaimy. Since their arrest, the pair have been charged with joining a “terrorist group” — namely the Brotherhood which has been outlawed following the 2013 overthrow of Islamist president Mohamed Morsi. In its ruling Saturday, the court said that Brotherhood members had tasked “other members of the group… including Ramy Shaath and Zyad al-Elaimy” with carrying out activities against the state. Hundreds of people have been added to Egypt’s terrorism list in recent years, including fugitives and people detained by authorities. The measure authorizes the authorities to freeze their assets while those who are not behind bars are banned from travel. Authorities have arrested thousands of Morsi supporters since his ouster, as well as secular activists, journalists, lawyers and academics. Source: i24NEWS  A bomb blast at a church north of Cairo killed at least 22 people and wounded dozens who had gathered for Palm Sunday mass, officials said, in the latest apparent attack on Egypt's Coptic Christians. April 9, 2017 In "News" An Egyptian court Wednesday ordered ex-president Hosni Mubarak freed while he stands trial for corruption and killing protesters, as authorities pressed their roundup of supporters of his ousted Islamist successor. August 21, 2013 In "News" The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has designated the Muslim Brotherhood a terrorist organisation, echoing a similar step by regional allies Saudi Arabia and Egypt, the local media reported on Sunday. November 16, 2014 In "News"