 By Peter Duru The young nurse who took part in the treatment of the Benue Coronavirus index case in Makurdi, names withheld, who earlier allegedly fled from the town after the status of the index case was made public, has been apprehended and placed on isolation. Benue State Deputy Governor and the chairman of the State Action Committee on COVID-19, Mr Benson Abounu had a few days ago disclosed that his surveillance team was in searching for the nurse. Mr Abounu, while addressing Local Government Council chairmen and traditional rulers in Makurdi explained that nurse fled from her residence after being stigmatized by her landlord. The Deputy Governor said “the young nurse took part in the treatment of the index case and when the news of the development got to her landlord she was stigmatized. “Out of fear she ran from her house to her village in Ushongo. We sent our surveillance team to the village to search for her and bring her back to Makurdi for the test. She was said to have left her village but we are searching for her. She may not be positive but she has to be tested to confirm her status.” Meanwhile, Vanguard gathered from a member of the state surveillance team who spoke on condition of anonymity that the Caretaker Chairman of Ushongo Local Government Area, Mr Bemseer Agugu yesterday traced the nurse and brought her back to Makurdi for isolation with other staff of the hospital that initially treated the index case. “She initially fled Makurdi but she was traced and brought back to town by the Caretaker Chairman of Ushongo LGA, Mr Bemseer Agugu and as I speak with you she is in self-isolation with other staff of the hospital where the index case received treatment in line with the National Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, directive,” he said. Van]guard By Peter Duru Chairman of the Benue State Action Committee on COVID-19 and Deputy Governor of the state, Mr. Benson Abounu has alleged that index case in the state has refusing to cooperate with his committee to enable contact tracing in the state. The Deputy Governor who made this known… March 31, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Health minister, governor agreed to resolve the controversy – Elder brother By Chioma Obinna  & Gabriel Olawale As controversy trails the purported COVID-19 index case in Benue State, the family of Mrs Susan Okpe Idoko Lawani, the woman at the center of the controversy, has demanded a rerun of the… April 2, 2020 In "News" ABUJA — The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has said it is following up on no fewer than 6,000 people suspected to have had contact with the 111 previously confirmed cases of the disease in the country, as the tally rose to 131 last night. March 31, 2020 In "News"