The President of the National Association of Resident Doctors, Dr Aliyu Sokomba, has revealed that a doctor treating COVID-19 patients at the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital, Edo State, has been infected with the diseases. Sokomba said this on Thursday while on Channels Television’s Sunrise Daily programme. He said six doctors had died of Lassa fever while another doctor had been infected with COVID-19. “At the moment, as health workers continue to play their part in containing the spread of the disease, the health workers are not protected. One of our colleagues died just yesterday from Lassa fever. This is the state of our health care institutions and that is the fate of most health care workers in the country. “Dr. Philp Dzuana is the sixth doctor to have died of Lassa fever in the country and very little is being done to getting this kind of situation under control. “Just yesterday again, one of our doctors in ISTH, Iruaa, had tested positive for the COVID-19 disease. What that means is that these doctors that are testing positive to various diseases are being left alone to take care of themselves. “There is no form of life insurance for them. There is no form of compensation. To say the least, what these doctors benefit at the end of every month as hazard allowance is N5, 0000. So, we are worried that if victory against COVID-19, Lassa fever outbreak in the country is to be achieved, the welfare and wellbeing of doctors and other health workers who are on the frontline must be secured.” Vanguard Nigeria News  As 7 doctors, 5 nurses quarantined in Adamawa By Demola Akinyemi, Shina Abubakar, Gabriel Olawale & Ike Uchechukwu Four persons have been confirmed dead in Taraba State just as Kaduna State announced the death of 36-year-old man on Monday following the outbreak of Lassa fever in the country. According to… January 28, 2020 In "Health" By Sola Ogundipe Doctors under the aegis of the National Association of Resident Doctors of Nigeria, NARD, have tasked the Federal government to declare a national state of emergency on Lassa fever. Speaking on Saturday, the umbrella body of resident doctors, lamented the current outbreak of Lassa fever currently wreaking… February 1, 2020 In "Health" Commiserating with families of Nigerians who died during the current outbreak, the NMA said two Nigerian doctors have lost their lives in Kano. Lassa fever, an acute viral hemorrhagic fever, has continued to rage like bush fire, spreading into many communities across the country. According to the Nigerian Centre… February 2, 2020 In "Health"