The kidnappers of Edo State Commissioner for Science and Technology, Mr. Emmanuel Agbale, Vanguard gathered last night, have contacted the family. A source said the kidnappers told the family that the commissioner was in their custody, and were said to have begun negotiations on his possible release. However, the source, who is close to the family, did not disclose what ransom the kidnappers were demanding. “They have contacted the family and are talking. The family members were even allowed to speak with the commissioner to be sure he is alive, but they are talking,” he told Vanguard. ALSO READ: Wife, daughter of Ibarapa king kidnapped in Oyo The police, on its part, said they have deployed men of several departments, including anti-kidnapping and other special squads, on the trail of the kidnappers. “We have deployed men from various departments and we are working to ensure that he is released,” Police Public Relations Officer, Chidi Nwabuzor, said. Agbale was kidnapped last Friday on Benin-Ekpoma Road and his police orderly killed in the process. An eyewitness said the heavily-armed hoodlums suddenly emerged from the bush and shot directly into Agbale’s car, which forced the driver to stop. “They first killed the police orderly on the spot and abducted the Edo Commissioner to an unknown destination,” the witness said. Vanguard Emmanuel Agbale, Edo State Commissioner for Science and Technology, has been kidnapped and his police orderly killed. The incident occurred on his way from Benin to Ekpoma, on Friday, by Oilpalm Estate on Benin-Auchi Road on Friday evening. It was learned that the gunmen, who were brandishing dangerous weapons, suddenly… April 19, 2020 In "News" Commissioner of Police in Kogi, Mr Hakeem Busari, yesterday, confirmed the kidnap of one Henshaw Ativie and his wife in the state on Sunday by unknown gunmen. April 16, 2019 In "News" The kidnappers of Pa Uroh Nelson Tempurah, father of Bayelsa State Commissioner for Tourism Development, Mr. Nelson Belief, have demanded for N98 million ransom before they would be set him free. November 27, 2013 In "News"