Miracle Chike, well known on social media as Miraboi has finally spoken up his mind regarding his relationship with people. The Lagos bred, Abia State native who has had a bit of controversies in the past, says he had an impeccable upbringing to kowtow to pettiness when dealing with people. He said,“ I have had good and bad experiences in this life but that hasn’t changed the real person in me. We are all from different backgrounds but I can say I had a well guided upbringing. What I have learnt from my parents is still what guides my life. So, in whatever I do, I exhibit my good upbringing.” According to the young entrepreneur in a chat with Potpourri, he says his good deeds have brought him a lot of blessings, adding that regardless of some unhealthy circumstances he has found himself, he has remained pretty resolute to be fair to all. “I grew up in a good home, even though we didn’t have much, being good has helped me a lot. That is why I always advise people to be good to others regardless of what they do to you in return. God is always there for good. Miraboi is a Nigerian entrepreneur, Chief Executive Officer of Miraboi Records and a musician, born and raised in Lagos State. Vanguard Young entertainment publicist and entrepreneur, Yung Miraboi Mark has opened up on why he has chosen not to be nominated for any 2019 awards. In a chat with Vanguard he finally speaks out his mind regarding notable Nigerian entertainment awards and other awards that have come his way and why… July 2, 2019 In "Entertainment" Entertainment PR hotshot, Miracle Chike popularly known as Yung Miraboi who has promoted many singers in the past has stepped out of the shadows into the limelight with his first musical effort “My Baby” using just 'Miraboi' as his stage name December 15, 2019 In "Entertainment" The relationship between singing Nigerian artiste, Zoro, and his former PR man, Miracle Kelechi Chike, popularly known as Yung Miraboi Mark, has gone south. The crack in their cordial association became grimly evident when the PR expert called out the singer on Twitter, accusing him of owing him paltry 30… September 1, 2018 In "Music"