Men of the Lagos State Fire Service and other rescue teams were on Saturday, attacked and repelled by warring rival groups from putting out raging inferno which affected several structures in Ajah, Eti-Osa, Local Government Area of the state. The fire, which was believed to have been started by the rival groups over land dispute involved three bungalow buildings with 48 rooms of varying sizes and 15 shanty structures. The buildings are situated on a land of about 1,944 square metres. According to the report at press time, no life was recorded to have been lost, but several properties worth millions of naira were destroyed. Confirming the incident, Acting Head, Lagos State Fire Service, Mrs. Margret Adeseye, said though, the fire had been finally put out, normalcy was yet to return to the area. Adeseye explained, “Lagos State Fire Service received a fire call on Saturday, 11th April, 2020 to 28/30 Church Street, Alesh Bus Stop, Eti- Osa Local Government, Ilaje, Ajah, Lagos. “A team led by fire officer, Mr. Adenuga from Lekki Phase 1 Fire Station deployed to the scene, on arrival discovered that it was a fire involving three bungalow buildings with 48 rooms of varying sizes and 15 shanty structures. The buildings are situated on a land of about 1,944sq metres. “The rooms and contents were severely damaged as the fire ranged on because there was a rival groups: the Ajah Ijebu and the Ajah Ilaje who were having a dispute over the land. “Stones, sachet water, bottled water of content like petrol were thrown into the fire in order to disturb firemen from putting out the fire. “When the situation became tensed, men of the State Fire Service were advised to withdraw by police team, led by Area J Commander, Assistant Commissioner of Police, DCP, Gbolahan for safety reason.” According to Adeseye, “As of 3pm, the fire is out, but normalcy is yet to be restored as the dispute continues between the groups in the community. The crowd is still in a very large number.” Vanguard News Nigeria. The Lagos State Government has asked the Court of Appeal to set aside the judgment of a Lagos High Court in Igbosere which faulted the demolition of illegal structures in Otodo Gbame Community and ordered the resettlement of displaced persons in the area. June 26, 2017 In "Metro" According to Director-General of Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, LASEMA, Dr. Femi Oke-Osantintolu, who confirmed the incident, the intensity of the fire led to physical cracks which eventually led to collapse of the building. November 14, 2019 In "News" •Victims blame govt, land-grabbers for their woes •Churches, mosques, estates, schools, markets, others demolished ... AFter several warnings to owners of structures along pipeline and powerline areas to vacate such settlements, agents of the Federal Government, last week, moved in with bulldozers, cranes and other equipment to pull down the… April 9, 2013 In "Homes & Property"