As coronavirus pandemic continues to spread its wing across the globe and oppressing global market, price of oil plunged to a 21-year low on Sunday. The commodity’s latest round of sharp selling comes as uncertainty mounts around storage for excess oil. Demand for crude has plummeted since the coronavirus outbreak has halted tradings. WTI crude oil plunged as much as 21 per cent to $14.47 per barrel. It later pared losses and traded roughly 15 per cent lower to $15.60 at 9:40 p.m. in New York. Brent crude losses were muted by comparison, with the commodity sliding 4.2 per cent to $26.91 per barrel at intra-session lows. The price of oil has continued to slide even after OPEC and its allies agreed to the biggest-ever production cut one intended to backstop prices. Investors remain unconvinced the cuts can offset cratering demand for the commodity as the coronavirus keeps society from operating normally. Concerns around storage come as near-term WTI crude prices trade at large discounts to longer-dated contracts. That dynamic is playing out amid worry that a key storage hub in Cushing, Oklahoma is nearing capacity, according to Bloomberg. Vanguard Following the continued spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) and its impacts on the global commodity markets, there seems to be a heightened pressure on the nation’s budget as the price of Bonny Light declines to $29 per barrel. This is coming a day after Saudi Arabia flooded the international market with… March 17, 2020 In "Business" • As outlook remains bleak By Michael Eboh Despite the absence of reassuring words from the Federal Government, Nigerians have cause to be concerned, as the global spread of coronavirus, also known as COVID-19, and the continuous drop in the price of crude oil in the international market would definitely… March 17, 2020 In "Energy" Oil prices on Thursday fell on concerns over the potential economic impact of the coronavirus that continues to spread worldwide, while the market also considered the possibility of an early OPEC meeting. Brent crude LCOc1 was down 90 cents, or 1.50 per cent, at $58.91 per cent a barrel by… January 30, 2020 In "Foreign"