David Moyes made a perfect start to his second spell in charge of West Ham on Wednesday with a 4-0 home win over Bournemouth in the English Premier League (EPL). Two goals from Mark Noble and one each by Felipe Anderson and Sebastien Haller gave the Hammers the win. Moyes saved the club from relegation during a six-month stint in 2017/2018 and replaced Manuel Pellegrini at the helm on Sunday. On Wednesday, he led West Ham into producing arguably their best performance of what has been a patchy season. Noble fired the home side ahead with a deflected 17th minute shot from 20 metres. Haller doubled their lead with a spectacular goal eight minutes later, blasting in a Ryan Fredericks cross with an acrobatic volley. Noble rounded off a perfect first half for West Ham with a 35th minute penalty kick, sending goalkeeper Aaron Ramsdale the wrong way. The penalty kick was awarded after he was fouled by Harry Wilson as he muscled his way past the Bournemouth forward. Anderson added the fourth midway through the second half as he shook off his marker and slid the ball under Ramsdale. A VAR check later rescinded a red card for West Ham defender Aaron Cresswell, who was instead booked for a poor tackle. The result lifted West Ham to 16th in the standings on 22 points from 20 games. Eighteenth-placed Bournemouth, who have 20 points, dropped into the relegation zone after suffering their eighth league defeat in the last 10 games. [Reuters/NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Crystal Palace vs Liverpool : Mohamed Salah was Liverpool's hero yet again as the Egypt star clinched a dramatic 2-1 win at Crystal Palace, while Alexis Sanchez ended his Manchester United goal drought in a 2-0 victory over Swansea on Saturday March 31, 2018 In "Sports" Jose Mourinho slammed criticism of Manchester United's cautious approach in their 2-1 win over bitter rivals Liverpool on Saturday, while West Ham fans rebelled in ugly scenes during their 3-0 defeat against Burnley. March 10, 2018 In "News" David Moyes suffered a miserable start to his West Ham United reign as Watford eased to a 2-0 win over the Premier League strugglers on Sunday. November 19, 2017 In "News"