Not fewer than 1,292 students have benefited from N8.2 million worth scholarship disbursed by the Speaker, Katsina State House of Assembly, Tasi’u Musa Maigari. Maigari who distributed the scholarships to the students in his constituents, Zango Constituency, at the weekend said the gesture was borne out of a desire to support the students to attain their educational pursuits. He urged the students to rededicate themselves to their studies in order to excel in their academics. The Speaker further assured of his continuous support to people of his constituents for the development and advancement of the area and the state in general. Similarly, the State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari, said the gesture was a welcome development towards educational support of the students. Masari commended the speaker’s effort and called on all others to emulate the gesture. The Governor said government had made education its priority, and for years, has gotten huge shares in the state budget and the manifestation were witnessed in the excellent performance in final year students’ in the state. Breakdown of the scholarship shows that thirteen master’s degree students were supported with N15,000 each, 317 undergraduates got N10,000 each, 2 HND received N7,000 each, 792 NCE, 13 ND and 113 OND as well as 42 health-related courses students got N5,000 each. VANGUARD The wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari, has called on Nigerians to make their children’s education a priority. September 4, 2017 In "News" As the Tafsir lectures kick-start to usher in the muslim month of Ramadan, Fasting period, Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State has on Sunday told Islamic clerics to use their trafsir lectures to preach and wage war against drug abuse. May 13, 2018 In "News" The Katsina State Coordinator, National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, Hajiya Ramatu Sanda has said that about 90% of its Corps members have been deployed to schools in all communities to support Governor Aminu Bello Masari led administration educational revolution. August 15, 2018 In "News"