Ethiopia’s Prime Minister and 2019 Nobel Peace Prize winner, Abiy Ahmed enjoined the United States President, Donald Trump to direct his complaints about not winning the Nobel Prize to the Awards committee. US President, Trump has earlier stated that he deserves the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize Award since he saved Ethiopia and not the country’s PM. “I made a deal, I saved a country, and I just heard that the head of that country is now getting the Nobel Peace Prize for saving the country. I said: ‘What, did I have something to do with it?’ Yeah, but you know, that’s the way it is,” Trump said. Abiy replying at a joint press briefing with South Africa’s president Cyril Ramaphosa said; ‘‘To be honest, I am not aware of the criteria used to select winners of the prize, so Trump’s complaint must go to the Nobel Prize Committee in Oslo, not Ethiopia,’‘ He also stated he was not working for the prize but instead for the peace of his region. ‘‘I am not working for the prize, I am working for peace which is a very critical thing for our region.’‘ Although the deal Trump was referring to in his statement “I made a deal, I saved a country” was not lucid, one senior Ethiopian official told The Associated Press the remarks referred to preventing further tensions between Ethiopia and Egypt over a massive dam that Ethiopia is completing on the Nile river. “He was talking about Egypt and Ethiopia,” the official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media on the matter. “President Trump really believes he avoided a war as such … but that was not the case,” the official said. The official also claimed that Egypt’s president lobbied Trump over the disputed dam project, leading to the U.S. taking a role in the discussions. Vanguard News Nigeria. “Peace does not arise from the actions of one party alone. When Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed reached out his hand, President Afwerki (Eritrea) grasped it and helped to formalise the peace process between the two countries. The Norwegian Nobel committee hopes the peace agreement will help bring about positive change… October 23, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, who was declared winner of 2019 Nobel Peace Prize, on Friday in Oslo, Norway. The president in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Friday, said Ahmed’s recognition as winner of… October 11, 2019 In "News" Former Deputy President of the Senate, Sen. Ike Ekweremadu, has called on the International Parliament for Tolerance and Peace (IPTP) holding in Ethiopia, to pay special attention to the xenophobic attacks on the African continent. October 29, 2019 In "News"