The Global Action for Peace has alerted the United States of America and Britain over the safety of its citizens in Nigeria following the threat by the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN). The proscribed radical Islamic sect had hinted of an impending attack on foreigners after a military action by the United States of America led to the death of top Iranian military commander, General Qassem Soliemani, in Iraq. This is unsurprising as IMN, formed about four decades ago, advocates the creation of an Iranian-style Islamic state in Nigeria. In a press conference on Sunday in Abuja, the Global Action for Peace revealed that the threat issued by the IMN to citizens of the US and the United Kingdom in Nigeria is an “affront to our collective sensibilities as Nigerians, which must be looked into by the security agencies.” On behalf of the group, convener, Dr. Joseph Agbo stated this action is an indication of the zero regards they have for the constituted authorities in the country. The Global Action for Peace, therefore, urged these nations to blacklist the sect known for violence and bloodshed. It further advised the United States and the United Kingdom to see this as a clarion call and activate measures that would support the efforts of the security agencies in Nigeria in curtailing the threats posed by the IMN. Read full text below: The Global Action for Peace wishes to use this medium to inform members of the general public of the threat posed by the banned Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) to citizens of the United States of America and the United Kingdom in Nigeria. This is on the heels of the military action by the United States of America that led to the death of General Qassem Soliemani, a top Iranian military commander in Iraq recently. The Global Action for Peace views with concern the posturing of members of the IMN that was evident in the public demonstration in some parts of northern Nigeria declaring a “jihad” on the United States of America and the United Kingdom. These threats are very typical of the terrorist activities of the IMN as an organization whose ideology is deeply rooted in violence and religious intolerance. This action by the IMN should give all well-meaning Nigerians a cause for concern given the fact that the Federal Government of Nigeria hasn’t made any official statement given the position of the United Nations over the military face-off between the United States of America and Iran. However, you may recall that it was because of its extremist and terrorist tendencies and the attendant dangers it posed to national security that made the Kaduna state government and later the Federal Government of Nigeria to proscribe the activities of the IMN in Nigeria. The Global Action for Peace wishes to state that the threat issued by the IMN to citizens of the United States and the United Kingdom in Nigeria is an affront to our collective sensibilities as Nigerians, which must be looked into by the security agencies. The action of the IMN is an indication of the zero regards they have for the constituted authorities in Nigeria, hence their disregard for the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The Global Action for Peace wishes to alert the relevant authorities in the United States and the United Kingdom that given the antecedents of the IMN that is rooted in deep hatred for those that do not share in their ideology, there is a high tendency that they would go a step further from the protest to inflict bodily harm on citizens of the United States of America and the United Kingdom in Nigeria through violent means. This is also on the heels that it is an incontrovertible fact that the IMN has Iran as their spiritual base as well as the support base for the entrenchment of their nefarious activities all over the world. This is cognizant of the fact that there are indications that Iran may turn to targets in Africa to exert revenge using proxies such as the IMN. The Global Action for Peace consequently wishes to draw the attention of Nigerians, as well as the security agencies of the apparent threat to life and properties by the adherents of the IMN in Nigeria. This is because of the ongoing mobilization by the leadership of the IMN to carry out massive protests across the country with specific directives from the Iranian authorities to target US and UK citizens. It should be recalled that the Inspector General of police Mohammed Adamu has placed the nation on red alert following the brewing crisis between both nations. Vanguard Nigeria is in the grip of terrorists' groups. Boko Haram is being degraded in the North-East. Niger-Delta militants could soon be pacified at talks in the South-South. Separatists in the South-East are tending towards intellectual struggle. Only the Shiite Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) is proving recalcitrant. November 17, 2016 In "News" Nigerians in the United Kingdom, Thursday, have demanded the immediate prosecution of the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Sheik Ibraheem El-Zakzaky for alleged terror related activities, saying the prosecution became necessary, as he (El-Zakzaky) has been indicted by investigations into a faceoff between his group and the… October 6, 2016 In "News" The Save Humanity Advocacy Centre (SHAC) has written the United States of America over the activities of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) otherwise known as Shi’ites. November 5, 2018 In "News"