UMUAHIA- Not less than 100 indigent women from the 6 council areas of Abia South senatorial zone, Abia State, have benefitted from an empowerment programme by non-governmental group, Women for Change Initiative and Equity Organization. Ex-Beauty Queen set to unveil “Jennifer Ephraim Foundation” Items of empowerment handed over to the beneficiaries include; 21, 20 sewing machines, 30 hair dressing  units, 50 wrappers, cash, among others. Speaking at the occasion, Coordinator of the Women for Change Initiative and Equity Organization, Lady Jane Ogbauta, explained that he decided to empower the women in various skills, businesses and financial grants to make them self dependent. Ogbauta said she was motivated to establish the organization due to the outcry of Abia Women whom have been suffering as a result of hard times in the society. She stated that the various beneficiaries had been trained in various skills like hair dressing, cloth making, among others and urged Abia women to learn to assist their fellow women. “This is an empowerment programme for women by the Women for Change Initiative and Equity Organization. We decided to donate these items to empower women to be self reliant. All the beneficiaries have been trained in the various skills such as hair dressing, cloth making, among others. The empowerment programme is being done in phases. We have started with Abia South zone; the next one will be for Abia Central while the grand finale will be in Abia North.” Ogbauta who disclosed that her family has been the sole sponsor of the organization for years, enumerated some of the challenges facing the organization to include empowerment materials, finance and logistics. Earlier , Chairman of the occasion, Prince Adighikachaaya as well as Nduoma Okoroafor , who represented the Minister of State for Mines and Steel, Dr. Uche Ogah, commended the leader of the group and urged her not to relent in her good works. Abia to establish university of science and technology A cross section of the beneficiaries, who spoke to South East Voice, commended Mrs Ogbauta for the empowerment programme and pledged to use the items to make a living and fend for their families. Vanguard UMUAHIA- Not less than 100 indigent women from the 6 council area of Abia South senatorial zone, Abia State, have benefited from an empowerment programme by nongovernmental group, Women for Change Initiative and Equity Organization. December 25, 2019 In "News" ...Abia Government raises alarm By Ugochukwu Alaribe - Umuahia Unknown gunmen have attacked the leader of the women group who embarked on the protest over alleged bad roads in Aba, Abia state. Ogbauta, who is the leader of Women for Change Initiative and Equity Organization, alleged that she was attacked… October 12, 2019 In "Metro" THE zoning arrangement adopted by the Abia state’s ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) through its Equity Legacy is receiving some knocks. The hardest of the knocks seem to come from the Abia North and Central senatorial zones, two areas that have produced state governors in the past. August 18, 2014 In "Politics"