A BANKER and the Convener of the Employee Marketplace (EMP) Initiative, Mr. Nduneche Ezurike, has called on organisations to embrace millennial focussed cross generational workplace. NBC trains 16,000 youth entrepreneurs He stressed that this becomes imperative in view of the famed disruptive technologies and digital transformation, which makes the millennial question a critical success factor for  many organizations in the new decade. In a special report titled, “2020: The decade of the millennials” Ezurike noted, “For the first time, three out of every five employees will be millennials and one a centennial. This means that many CEOs in this decade will emerge from the cohort of those who are described as entitled, open, connected and confident with little regard to traditional hierarchies” He explained that most organizations in Africa seeking to build sustainable businesses must be ready to confront four defining workplace challenges, first of which is to always design and implement a bottom-up approach to organizational strategy. He also charged organizations to entrench a cross-generational workplace that combines the digital capability of the millennials with the emotional intelligence of the X Generation as this will enable a more harmonious working environment. U.S. Embassy awards $523,314 grants to Nigerian Civic Groups In the era of talent economy, he advised employers to embrace an environment where employees can work remotely, virtually and mobile. In his words, “clocking in and out of the office or signing punctuality register may not work anymore. Vanguard Skye Bank Plc has unveiled a new television commercial, TVC that highlights the importance of consumer power in modern marketing. November 29, 2017 In "Business" SKYE Bank’s website www.skyebankng.com has been recognised as one of the most improved bank websites as announced by foremost web ranking Agency, Web Jurist, powered by Philips Consulting in its just-released rating. Skye Bank rose from its previous 18th position in ranking to the 8th position in 2016; beating such… January 30, 2017 In "Business" Greensprings School has engaged youths in their four campuses to improve their work-life balance whether in school or at their places of work. The youth of this dispensation are referred to as the Millennial. December 1, 2019 In "Education"