Malam Mohammed Garba, Kano State Commissioner for Information and Culture has urged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) supporters in the state to accept the Supreme Court verdict affirming the re-election of Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje in good faith. Garba made the call while speaking with newsmen on Monday in Kano, calling on the party supporters to remain calm and maintain peace in the state. According to Garba, Ganduje’s victory at the Supreme Court is the will of God and the desire of the people of Kano state. The Commissioner added that the victory was the real confirmation of the state’s journey to the Next Level. “We are most grateful to Almighty God for the victory. This is not a victory for Ganduje alone. “It is a victory for the good people of Kano state, therefore let us join hands together to move the state forward as we have been doing,” Garba said. He also appealed to the All Progressives Congress (APC) supporters to also remain calm and celebrate the victory peacefully. vanguard By Abdulmumin Murtala, Kano Following the victory of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of the ruling All Progressive Congress, APC, the  Kano state chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Rabiu Sulaiman Bichi declares that they have accepted the judgement of the court in good faith. "We are grateful to Almighty God… January 20, 2020 In "Politics" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised its supporters in Kano State to remain calm and avoid acts capable of causing trouble in the state. Alhaji Rabi’u Suleiman-Bichi, the state’s PDP Caretaker Committee Chairman, gave the advice while speaking with newsmen in Kano on Monday. READ ALSO: Kano PDP accepts… January 20, 2020 In "Politics" Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has restated his administration’s commitment to making quality education accessible. Ganduje gave the assurance on Wednesday in Kano while addressing party supporters after two weeks absence on a national assignment outside the country. He promised to uplift the standard of education and girl-child education… October 9, 2019 In "News"