A 15-year-old boy  narrated in tears how his father allegedly beat his mother to death during a misunderstanding in Bisodun community, Ofada area of Ogun State, weekend. Though the cause of the misunderstanding that degenerated into a fight between his parents, Olanrewaju Bamidele and Adenike Olarewaju, could not be ascertained, the teenager, Ayomide Olarewaju, revealed that “my father used a big stick to beat my mother until she fainted. He also used a screwdriver to stab her on her head. We were all watching and crying, telling him to stop.” He stated further that he and his siblings tried to wake her up by shaking her vigorously and calling out her name but that there was no response. On realising that Adenike was dead, the suspect was said to have attempted to secretly bury her in a shallow grave behind his building. But his children raised the alarm that alerted neighbours, who apprehended their father, until the arrival of policemen from Ofada post. Spokesman for the Ogun State Police Command, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident. He said: “On the strength of the report, the Officer-in-charge of Ofada Police post, DSP Akinfolahan Oluseye, led his men to the scene at Bisodun village via Ofada, where the suspect, who has been held down by members of the community, was handed over to the police. He was immediately taken to Owode-Egba Divisional Headquarters where he is currently being interrogated. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect was fond of beating his wife from time to time. He was about to bury the woman secretly when the deceased children, who saw him digging a grave by the side of his house, alerted members of the community. “The corpse of the victim has been deposited at the Olabisi Onabanjo Teaching Hospital mortuary Sagamu, for autopsy, while the screwdriver and the stick he used to kill the victim have also been recovered. Vanguard James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta The Ogun State Police Command have arrested a 40year-old man, Olanrewaju Bamidele for beating his wife, Adenike Olanrewaju to death. This was contained in a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer of the Ogun State command, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi and made available to newsmen in… January 20, 2020 In "Metro" Often, Nigerians are inundated with strange news of fathers who are supposed to protect their daughters from sexual molesters, only to turn out to be the sexual predators. April 7, 2018 In "Crime Alert" The tragedy that befell the Adiele family of Eziama-Ubulu, Mgbidi in Oru West Local Government Area, Imo State last week has sent shock waves across the length and breadth of the state.  Their son, Dominic Adiele was allegedly clubbed to death by the son of his uncle and some suspected… June 20, 2018 In "Crime Alert"