Three airstrikes by Russian warplanes hit a hospital in Syria’s north-western province of Idlib, leaving it out of service, a monitoring group said on Thursday. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the Russian jets hit Al-Shami Hospital in Ariha city at midnight, wounding some of the staff members. The White Helmets, a first responder group that operated in rebel-held areas, posted a video showing damage and smoke inside the hospital. Syrian government forces backed by their Russian allies and pro-Iranian militias have been advancing into areas in the southern countryside of Idlib for the past week. On Tuesday, Syrian government forces entered the city of Maaret al-Nouman after a multi-sided offensive as part of a ground operation in southern Idlib. The offensive prompted thousands to flee their homes towards areas near the Syrian-Turkish border, which is already packed with refugees. According to the UN office for the Coordination Of Humanitarian affairs (OCHA), between December 2019 and Jan. 27; over 388, 000 people, 80 per cent of whom women and children were displaced in north-western Syria due to shelling. Vanguard Clashes between Syria's regime forces and armed groups in the country's last major opposition bastion have killed more than 60 on both sides in the past 24 hours despite UN calls for de-escalation, a war monitoring group said Friday. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 38 jihadists and… December 20, 2019 In "Foreign" Russian-backed Syrian forces have gained ground after a week-long renewed assault against the last opposition enclave in Syria’s northwest, the biggest such push in more than three months that has prompted a large civilian exodus, witnesses and residents said on Sunday. The wide-scale offensive led by intense aerial strikes on… December 22, 2019 In "Foreign" Syrian government forces captured a village from rebels in the central province of Hama on Saturday as they pushed a ground operation backed by Russian air support. October 10, 2015 In "News"