Wuhan, a Chinese city of nearly nine million people, is to temporarily shut public transport as it tries to halt the outbreak of a new strain of the virus. Those living in the city have been advised not to leave, in a week when millions of Chinese are travelling for the upcoming Lunar New Year holiday. The respiratory illness has spread to other parts of China, with some cases in other countries including the United States. There are more than 500 confirmed cases and 17 people have died. Known for now as 2019-nCoV, the virus is understood to be a new strain of coronavirus not previously identified in humans. The Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) virus that killed nearly 800 people globally in the early 2000s was also a coronavirus, as is the common cold. Meanwhile, after a day of discussions in Geneva, Switzerland, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) emergency committee has announced it would not yet declare a “global emergency” over the new virus. The Director-General of WHO, Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus, said more information was needed about the spread of the infection. The committee of health experts will meet again on Thursday. A global emergency is the highest level of alarm the WHO can sound and has previously been used in response to swine flu, Zika virus, and Ebola. (BBC)  Vanguard The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is currently coordinating a multisectoral technical group that is assessing and managing the risk of importation of Coronavirus into the country. The information is in a public health advisory by NCDC on Wednesday. Coronavirus are viruses typically found in animals, ranging from livestock… January 23, 2020 In "News" China reported four more cases of pneumonia believed to be caused by a new coronavirus strain, causing rising concern globally that a disease health officials do not yet fully understand could spread during a key holiday period. The new virus, which was discovered in the central Chinese city of Wuhan,… January 18, 2020 In "Health" China will step up efforts to contain the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan ahead of the Lunar New Year holidays as a rise in confirmed cases fanned fears the virus could spread to other countries. The National Health Commission said on Sunday departments should work together to carry out preventative measures.… January 19, 2020 In "Health"