New year is here and Smartphone  manufacturer, Huawei, said Nigerians can memorize  the year better, if their phones have better camera features. HP advances security in new Envy laptop It therefore, debuted with what it dubbed the most sophistecated camera in its stable the Y9s. The new device is equiped with an ultra-wide angle 48 Mega Pizel AI Tripple Camera. According  to the company, that feature enables the phone to deliver  outsanding photography for  lovers of entertainment or gaming. Perfect gift Huawei said that the device is a perfect gift for someone who loves taking photos, because the 48MP Triple AI Camera setup makes it the right candidate. Not only is taking pictures really easy, the results are so satisfying that you won’t need to take a second shot. The camera setup, consisting of a 48MP main camera, 8MP 120 degree Ultra-Wide camera and a 2MP Depth sensor, also uses powerful AI that recognizes what you are trying to take a picture of, making sure every shot is perfect. You don’t have to worry about lighting, because the AIS Night Mode will ensure well-lit photos, while advanced features like EIS Anti-shake and Super slow motion will add that professional touch to videos. Other features of Y9s include: A hidden pop up camera for  selfies The Huawei Y9s has 16MP AI Selfie camera hidden in the top edge of the phone. One can open a camera, switch on selfie mode and the little camera pops up automatically. The 16MP AI Selfie Camera packs quite a punch and it is capable of taking beautiful selfies, even in difficult lighting thanks to AI Backlit Imaging. Both front and back cameras are also equipped with Adaptive AI Beauty that enhances one’s facial features accentuating a stunning looks. For that final touch, the person can also add rich studio like effects with the help of 3D Portrait Lighting. Trendy design With the front camera tucked away into the top edge, the Huawei Y9s enjoys no bezels or notches which means one can enjoy 6.59 inches of uninterrupted FHD+ display for watching movies, play games, browsing online shopping lists and doing a lot more. This is due to maximized viewing ratio. Viewing experience is now more immersive, making sure that one does not miss even the tiniest details. It also has a TUV Rheinland certified Eye Comfort Mode, which effectively reduces blue light, a cause of eye fatigue. Its stunning display is built into a beautiful glass body, complete with a premium finish in Huawei’s popular Breathing Crystal or Midnight Black. Also, its slim profile, even with the side-mounted fingerprint sensor added to the beauty. Competitive global economy: Verraki calls for national technology agenda Strong hardware for all-day user The new device also serves  a gamer, avid social media user or even just someone who depends on the smartphone all day. This is because  the Kirin 710F, EMUI 9.1 and GPU Turbo 3.0 hardware performance levels are boosted without tasking the 4000 mAh battery. Additionally, it has 6GB of RAM with 128GB of storage for all photos, videos and more. It can also be expanded to 512GB via a microSD card. Vanguard The HUAWEI Y9s equipped with an Ultra-wide angle 48MP AI Triple Camera to deliver outstanding photography is now available for sale in Nigeria market starting. Here are four (4) reasons why HUAWEI Y9s should be on your gift list this season. The holiday season is right around the corner… December 18, 2019 In "Sponsored" Today, Huawei officially launches the HUAWEI Y9s, a new entry-level smartphone for the second half of 2019. To meet consumers’ diverse demands, the HUAWEI Y9s launches with impressive features including a pop-up camera and a 6.59-inch FullView Display, giving the user a truly borderless viewing experience. Crafted with flagship-level quality,… December 4, 2019 In "Sponsored" Huawei Consumer Business Group today launched the HUAWEI P30 lite, the latest photography-focused triple-camera smartphone. Combining an exquisite design with Huawei’s innovations, the latest HUAWEI P smartphone is equipped with three rear cameras with support for ultra-wide angle photography and artificial intelligence (AI) features. Making high quality photography accessible, it… October 23, 2019 In "Sponsored"