The recurring attacks, kidnappings and killings of Christians especially in the North East by the Jihadist groups have been described as a ploy to set the northern region on fire if the federal government fails to curb the trend. The Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN in the 19 Northern States and the FCT, Rev. Yakubu Pam expressed the opinion on the heels of the killing of Rev. Lawan Andimi, CAN Chairman, Michika local government area of Adamawa State. Pam, worried by the situation noted that the federal government should rise and stem the tide of unwarranted killings of Christians so that wrong signals are not sent to Christian faithful in other geo-political zones of the nation as it seems the entire Christian community in the north is under siege. According to him, “Interreligious leaders in the North have worked so hard to bring the two main religions, Christianity and Islam adherents to work closely with one another for the peace of the Northern states in recent years. The gains made are now being eroded with the recent development of upsurge of Jihadists on the loose in North East states of Nigeria. “President Buhari administration should double up its efforts in the management of the current situation in the North to avoid outbreak of religious crisis in the region which would not be of any benefit to anyone.” The Northern CAN Leader added that “the recent video that emerged from ISIS affiliated terror group and the horrific  footage released  by ISIS News Agency  showing a child of about eight years old carrying out the execution of a Christian in an unidentified outdoor area of Borno state is frightening. “The under age Jihadist was seen in the video warning  Christians to be ready to witness more killings and as such it has sent shock waves into the heart of Christian leaders and faithful in the North that their lives are not safe unless the federal government quickly arrests  this ugly development before people begin to resort to self help.” He called on the Christians in the North to be vigilant and watchful as directed by the Lord Jesus Christ  over the current happenings around their environment and report same quickly to security agencies located within their homes and environment for prompt security action to save lives of innocent Christians doing their legitimate business in the region. Vanguard ABUJA—SADDEND by the incessant killings of Christians in the northern part of the country, Governor Simon Lalong and the leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, in the 19 northern states, yesterday, met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, demanding a review of the country’s security architecture to… July 6, 2018 In "News" Christians all over the country, yesterday, embarked on a peaceful protest to register their displeasure over the spate of killings by herdsmen across Nigeria. April 30, 2018 In "Headlines" Following recent killing of Mrs Eunice Olawole, wife of the Parish Pastor of the Divine Touch Parish of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG at Kubwa Satellite town, Abuja, the Christian Association in 19 Northern states and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, has condemned the killing, saying no stone… July 14, 2016 In "News"