Jamaican musician, Shaggy reportedly turned down the opportunity to feature on Rihanna’s forthcoming album because he was asked to audition for it. Shaggy according to The Daily Star passed up a chance to collaborate with Rihanna on her upcoming album, saying no on the grounds that he “didn’t need to audition.” Rihanna’s forthcoming album follows her 2016’s ‘Anti’ and will be reggae-inspired. “They approached me for the Rihanna project, yeah,” Shaggy said. “There’s a lot of great people involved, but for me, I didn’t need to audition to be on the record, I’ll leave that to younger guys.” He, however, went ahead to show his support for her venturing into dancehall, “It’s a healthy competition. Dancehall is in a good place but we need as many people to do this art form as possible. When it crosses over and becomes popular with artists from other genres and other cultures, that can only be good.” Rihanna has been working on her long-awaited ninth album, which is rooted in reggae. “I like to look at it as a reggae-inspired or reggae-infused album,” she told Vogue. “It’s not gonna be typical of what you know as reggae.” VANGUARD Mavin records singer, Korede Bello, has finally explained the reason behind his refusal to feature his label mates or any other artiste on his debut album. March 25, 2017 In "Entertainment" IN October, the Gulf International Technology Exhibition held in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, from October 12-16, with Nigeria as the official Country Partner of the event, reputed to be the biggest technology show in the MEASA (Miidle East, Africa and South Asia) region. The National Information Technology Development Agency,… October 31, 2014 In "Entertainment" Even without an album to her name, Afro/soul singer, songwriter and guitarist, Aramide Sarumoh, bagged an award for Best Female Artiste in West Africa in an award category that had the likes of Tiwa Savage, Yemi Alade and Seyi Shay, at the recently concluded AFRIMA December 24, 2016 In "Entertainment"