The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu on Thursday, pledged maximum support to the Operation Amotekun regional security outfit of the South-West geopolitical zone. He said the outfit had come to stay regardless of the federal government stance on it. Recall that Vanguard had earlier reported bow the federal government, through the Attorney general of the Federation, AGF, Abubakar Malami, declared the security outfit illegal, saying it was not backed by any known law in the country. However, on Thursday the IPOB leader in a Live Broadcast, monitored by the Nation,  lauded the initiators of the outfit, describing the arrangement as laudable. He assured the readiness of his movement to provide the necessary manpower to the outfit. The statement reads: “The final and definitive stance of the Biafran people is that IPOB will support Operation Amotekun with all our might. “Regardless of the history of politics of that may have existed between the East and the West in the past, our we have sworn to work with this generation of Yoruba leadership with the likes of Pa Ayo Adebanjo, Yinka Odumakin, Femi Fani-Kayode and Omoleye Sowore at the helm. Read Also; Amotekun: Ooni, Soyinka, Akeredolu, Makinde kick “I will support this generation of Yorubas that setup Amotekun. IPOB will work with them. If they want one million men, I will give them to ensure this expansionism is stopped. “We will support the Yorubas in all forms and by every means necessary. The IPOB leader further vowed to ensure nothing untoward happened to the outfit. He added: “IPOB will back Amotekun Security Outfit. Amotekun is not going anywhere. They are here to stay and IPOB will support them”. Vanguard SEEING provision of security as one of the key functions of any responsible and responsive government, governors of the southwestern states in Nigeria on Thursday converged on Ibadan to launch the Western Nigeria Security Network (WNSN) tagged: 'Operation Amotekun' with the aim to ensure an end to insecurity in the… January 10, 2020 In "News" S-West governors dare FG No going back on outfit — Akeredolu Malami lacks power to ban it — Makinde Amotekun has come to stay — Soyinka By Dayo Johnson, Dapo Akinrefon, Peter Duru, Ola Ajayi, Henry Ojelu & James Ogunnaike Following Tuesday’s declaration by the Attorney-General of the Federation and… January 16, 2020 In "News" IBADAN —GOVERNORS of the six states of the South West, yesterday, told the Federal Government not to see the launch of the Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed Operation  Amotekun  (Leopard) as an agenda to undermine the integrity of the country. January 10, 2020 In "News"