THE Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, on Friday, dismissed reports in some quarters that his ministry was recruiting personnel. The minister told journalists in his office that the report was false. He urged Nigerians to disregard reports that the ministry was employing graduate teachers into its schools. Adamu said: “The ministry cannot and does not employ any officer above grade level six (GL.06). It is the exclusive preserve of the Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC) to do so.” “For the avoidance of doubt, the last time the Federal Civil Service Commission recruited teachers for the Nations Unity Schools was in 2018.” Explaining the rationale for the briefing, the minister said some fraudsters have opened websites advertising for recruitment into the ministry, adding that it is a complete scam and members of the public should avoid being victims. He added: “Whenever recruitment is to be done into the ministry, the Federal Civil Service Commission will advertise through its mechanism, following all due processes before posting successful officers to the ministry.”  Vanguard  The Acting Registrar, National Examination Council (NECO), Mr Abubakar Gana, has attibuted the drop in the number of candidates in the 2019 Common Entrance Examination into Federal Government schools to lack of sponsorship by some politicians. Gana made the assertion on Saturday in Abuja during the monitoring of the examination… April 27, 2019 In "Education" ABUJA--LIKE 2018, Lagos State maintained its lead as the state with the highest number of registered candidates for the 2019 Common Entrance Examination into the nation's unity colleges. April 27, 2019 In "Education" President Muhammadu Buhari says his administration will provide vibrant policies that will provide allowances and initiate annual retention benefits for teachers in order to attract them to rural communities. Buhari, who was represented by the Attorney General of the Federation, Justice Abubakar Malami made this known in Abuja on Saturday at… October 5, 2019 In "Education"