As controversy continues to trail the formation of a security outfit to tackle rising threats in the Southwest, a northern group has thrown its weight behind the group, known as Amotekun. The National President of the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, Alhaji Yerima Shettima, said in an interview with Vanguard that they were in full support of Amotekun given the rising wave of insecurity and violence across the country in recent times. Shettima said that rather than dismissing Amotekun as illegal and vilifying the Southwest governors for their ingenuity in setting up the security outfit, the federal government should team up with the governors and ensure the workability of the new outfit. “Shettima said: I am a strong supporter of community policing given the state of insecurity in Nigeria particularly in the northern part of the country and I believe that Amotekun is a right step in the right direction which should be supported by all well-meaning Nigerians. “As far as I am concerned the North should get ready to start its own version of Amotekun in order to be able to tackle the rising wave of insecurity in the region. It is only when one is alive that there could be governance. “The situation is clear and simple: If the state cannot protect and defend its citizens the people must find a way to protect themselves,” the youth leader contended. Vanguard News Nigeria. ...Says North should be ready for similar outfit By Soni Daniel - Abuja As controversy continues to trail the formation of a security outfit to tackle rising threats in the Southwest, a northern group has thrown its weight behind the group, known as Amotekun. The National President of the Arewa… January 22, 2020 In "News" ANGRY reactions have continued to trail the declaration by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, that the South West security outfit Amotekun is illegal. January 17, 2020 In "News" Oodua Peoples Congress, (OPC) has berated a northern group, Northern Youths Council of Nigeria (NYCN), for kicking against the Thursday launch of the Western Nigeria Security Network, codenamed “Operation Amotekun” by the governors of the six states of the South West. This is just as Igbo Socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo,… January 11, 2020 In "News"