Julius Berger Nigeria Plc has been ranked in the upper top 100 Nigerian companies in terms of assets, revenue and profits in fiscal year 2018. Alongside MTN Nigeria , Dangote Group and Zenith Bank, the companies were announced as “Nigeria’s Top 100 Companies”; an exclusive club of the country’s corporate elite. A survey by influential Business weekly magazine, NEXTMONEY in its December 2019 edition stated: “Julius Berger ranked among the first 21 of the top 100 companies in terms of assets of over N288.43 billion.” In terms of revenue and profits for the period, the publication rated      the company number 16 with N194.62billion and N6.1billion to show. According to NEXTMONEY, the Top 100 Companies “is a galaxy of Nigeria’s blue chip companies with humongous assets, hefty revenues and princely profits. It is a showcase of publicly-held companies in the country that have posted impressive results after weathering the country’s excruciating economic weather. It is an album of companies that represent a goldmine in the business world where investors can put their money and reap bountiful harvest in terms of return on investment,” even as it stressed that, “this report covers the 2018 accounting year.” On how the top companies were decided, NEXTMONEY said, “we extracted the relevant data from the audited accounts of the companies listed on the NSE and sorted them from the largest to the smallest and cut off at the 100th.” Vanguard On the top 10 performing stocks last week were shares of UAC of Nigeria Plc. Union Bank of Nigeria Plc, Julius Berger Nig. Plc, Access Bank of Nigeria Plc, Ikeja Hotels Plc, and Chemical and Allied Products, CAP Plc. March 3, 2015 In "Investors Forum" Bilfinger SE, a minority shareholder with a holding of 33.4 per cent in Julius Berger Nigeria Plc (JBN) has expressed its decision to divest its stake to Nigerian investors. In a statement, the construction giant said Billfinger has notified the Board of Julius Berger of its decision to dispose of… June 22, 2015 In "Business" Julius Berger Nigeria Plc has explained to investors that there was no need to float a rights issue at the moment as the Company's shareholders equity has risen to N35 billion. May 9, 2019 In "Business"