Deputy Public Health Minister Satit Pitutecha has confirmed a fifth case of coronavirus infection has been detected in Thailand – a 33-year-old woman tourist from China. Mr Satit said on Friday the patient and her 7-year-old daughter by plane in Bangkok from Wuhan on Tuesday, She later visited a private hospital complaining of a fever, coughing and muscle aches before being transferred to a government hospital on Thursday. “The patient is a 33-year-old woman from Wuhan on vacation,” he said. She is being treated in an isolation room at Rajavithi Hospital. Doctors found no signs that the virus has spread to other people in Thailand, the minister said. The girl showed no signs of illness. A Thai woman who contracted the virus after spending the New Year in Wuhan was admitted to Nakhon Pathom Hospital on Jan 15 and discharged on Friday after lab tests cleared her of the virus, the Public Health Ministry said in a statement. Thailand currently has two patients under quarantine for the virus. China has stepped up measures to contain the virus, which has killed 25 people and infected more than 800, with public transport suspensions in 10 cities, temples shutting, and the rapid construction of a new hospital to treat those infected. The Wuhan airport was closed on Thursday. Source: Bangkok Post Vanguard News A new virus from the same family as the deadly SARS disease has spread beyond China's borders for the first time with a case emerging in Thailand, UN and Thai officials said on Monday. Thai doctors diagnosed a Chinese traveller with mild pneumonia on January 8 later confirmed to have been caused… January 17, 2020 In "Foreign" A number of African countries have introduced airport screenings and other precautionary measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus that has infected hundreds in China. The disease has also reached several other countries. China has been expanding its influence in Africa for years and the continent is a destination for… January 23, 2020 In "Health" China reported four more cases of pneumonia believed to be caused by a new coronavirus strain, causing rising concern globally that a disease health officials do not yet fully understand could spread during a key holiday period. The new virus, which was discovered in the central Chinese city of Wuhan,… January 18, 2020 In "Health"