Manchester United have reached an agreement with Odion Ighalo on personal terms and salary over a six-month loan from Shanghai Shenhua, with an option to buy, according to Sky in Italy. A medical could be held in China, but United still face a race to complete a move before the 11pm deadline closes. Tottenham also made their own late attempt to secure a loan deal for former Watford striker Ighalo on Deadline Day. READ ALSO: Premier League Player of the Month Nominations for January United earlier had a £20m bid for Bournemouth striker Joshua King rejected as the club target cover in the absence of the injured Marcus Rashford, but their pursuit of the Norway international appears to have ended. Tottenham also made their own late attempt to secure a loan deal for former Watford striker Ighalo on Deadline Day. After the home game against Wolves on Saturday, live on Sky Sports, United have a 16-day gap before they play Chelsea in their next Premier League fixture. Tottenham, who have explored a number of short-term options to cover for the injured Harry Kane this month, are increasingly unlikely to sign a striker but continue to explore what are now limited options. VANGUARD Manchester United are considering bringing former Nigerian striker, Odion Ighalo to strengthen their attacking options following the long-term injury to Marcus Rashford Skysports reports. Former Watford forward Ighalo is with Chinese club Shanghai Shenhua and has two years left on his contract while Slimani is on loan at Monaco from… January 24, 2020 In "Sports" Watford striker Odion Ighalo is among the top fifteen marksmen in the Premier League after four rounds, the Premier League has published on its official webpage. September 15, 2016 In "Sports" Odion Ighalo was a hot commodity before the second half of last season in the EPL as he dazzled Hornets fans and indeed the watching world with his mesmerizing goal banging skills. helping the newly promoted side to a 13th spot finish last term. Though the goals almost dried up… September 12, 2016 In "Sports"