 Akure—AHEAD of this year’s governorship election in Ondo State, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has dismissed the fear that his role in the formation of the security outfit Amotekun would rob him of a second term in office. The governorship election in the state is due in November this year. Akeredolu in a statement in Akure said he “is not perturbed by the possible consequences of leading the Governors of the South West in the formation of Amotekun. The statement signed by his Information and Orientation Commissioner, Donald Ojogo, said: “Fears and apprehensions have been expressed in many quarters that his role in the formation of Amotekun could ruin his second term chances. “This is far from the truth because Governor Akeredolu is on the path of national cohesion through collaborative internal security. The decision taken in respect of Amotekun was in the interest of the entire Nation not the South-West alone. “The political insinuations and blackmail are the required ingredients needed to make it credible. But such will not discourage the governor in any manner. “Expectedly, there are possibly, political vultures waiting to reap from an imaginary scenario, especially as we approach the 2020 Ondo governorship primary of our great party. “ For Governor Akeredolu, everything that is desirable must be blessed by God. 2020 is a year that will be decided by the people of Ondo State; it can only be directed by God and His Will alone shall prevail.’’ Vanguard S-West governors dare FG No going back on outfit — Akeredolu Malami lacks power to ban it — Makinde Amotekun has come to stay — Soyinka By Dayo Johnson, Dapo Akinrefon, Peter Duru, Ola Ajayi, Henry Ojelu & James Ogunnaike Following Tuesday’s declaration by the Attorney-General of the Federation and… January 16, 2020 In "News" ABUJA— THE Six South West governors, weekend, declared that they will not "capitulate to blackmail" from within or outside the region, and reaffirmed that the South West security initiative, Amotekun, is neither a regional army nor an ethnic agenda aimed at obliterating and undermining national cohesion. January 20, 2020 In "News" AS governors in the South West States set to launch a security outfit code name " Operation Amotekun" to tackle the spate of insecurity in the region, Ondo state government has procured vans and motorcycles to fight the menace in the state. September 12, 2019 In "News"