United States President Donald Trump warned Iran against cracking down on protests that broke out after it admitted shooting down an airliner by mistake, killing all 176 people aboard. “The government of Iran must allow human rights groups to monitor and report facts from the ground on the ongoing protests by the Iranian people,” Trump tweeted. His message came after Iranian police dispersed students chanting “radical” slogans, according to Fars news agency, during a Saturday gathering in Tehran to honor those killed when the Ukraine International Airlines plane was shot down shortly after taking off from Tehran. AFP correspondents said hundreds of students had gathered early in the evening at Amir Kabir University, in downtown Tehran, to pay respects to those killed in the air disaster. The tribute later turned into an angry demonstration. “To the brave, long-suffering people of Iran: I’ve stood with you since the beginning of my Presidency, and my Administration will continue to stand with you,” Trump tweeted. “We are following your protests closely, and are inspired by your courage,” he added. The new demonstrations follow an Iranian crackdown on street protests that broke out in November. Amnesty International has said it left more than 300 people dead. “There can not be another massacre of peaceful protesters, nor an internet shutdown. The world is watching,” Trump said. According to media reports, internet access was effectively cut off in multiple Iranian provinces ahead of memorials planned a month after the protests. Trump tweeted both of his messages in Farsi as well. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. President Donald Trump pulled back from the brink of war with Iran on Wednesday, saying that Tehran appeared to be "standing down" after firing missiles -- without causing casualties -- at US troops based in Iraq. In a televised address to the nation from the White House, Trump emphasized there… January 9, 2020 In "Foreign" Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Thursday that Canada had intelligence from multiple sources indicating that a Ukrainian airliner which crashed outside Tehran was mistakenly shot down by Iran. "We have intelligence from multiple sources, including our allies and our own intelligence. The evidence indicates that the plane was shot… January 9, 2020 In "Foreign" Iranian and Ukrainian officials have begun investigating the crash of a Ukrainian airliner near Tehran, Iran’s aviation authority said on Friday. The investigation is coming amid mounting claims that the jet was shot down by an Iranian missile. All 176 people on board the Ukrainian International Airlines (UIA) Boeing 737… January 10, 2020 In "Foreign"