Nollywood actress, Ruth Kadiri has celebrated her daughter, Reign Ezerika on Instagram, while also confessing that she was not ready to have a child when she was pregnant, because she was scared pregnancy would affect her career, amidst fears that she was not going to be a good mother. We convey pregnant women to hospitals on donkeys ― Bauchi communities Kadiri who shared her story on her Instagram page, admitted that she suffered depression when she was pregnant. “2019 came with more than a blessing. After my wedding I became pregnant, wasn’t sure I wanted a baby now, was so scared it will affect my career, and was so scared I wouldn’t be a good mum. For unknown reasons I became depressed. Thanks to @judyaustin1 who made me see how blessed a woman I was, who recounted how God had blessed me over and over again. Thank God for my husband who made me know I was loved. Well it happened. A stress free pregnancy, Uncle Ben, Rosanna, and my entire Swedish family, I thank you for been there for me. Reign became the top of the list of my blessings. Thanks to mummy (my mother-in-law) for loving me the way you do. Friendship with Emery will survive derby outcome, says Pochettino Thanks to my mother (biological mum) for standing by me. Thanks to @officialstelladmokokorkus for been a fair blogger. Thanks to @maryremmynjoku for been a good friend. Thanks to @iamhuk for your prayers. May we all continue to celebrate in this life and forever. Amen. @reignezerika thanks for lighting up my world with your smiles and laugh. Vanguard It is no longer news that 29-year-old Edo State actress cum producer, Ruth Kadiri, got engaged to her mystery man in Sweden during the week, as she displayed her engagement ring in a post without showing the lucky man whom she allegedly referred to as red cap chief. December 30, 2017 In "Home Video People" Popular Nollywood Actress, Ruth Kadiri has fumed over the recent reports that she too was ditched by the General Overseer, Omega Fire Ministries, Apostle Johnson Suleman in a wave of sex allegations against the Apostle by a Canada-based self-professed stripper, Ms. Stephanie Otobo. March 18, 2017 In "News" Ruth Kadiri is one of the fast rising actresses cum scriptwriters you would love to meet some day. Soft-spoken, easy-going and highly articulate Ruth has built for herself a name that may get the likes of Geneiveve and Omotola going green with envy in no distant future. The Edo State… December 21, 2014 In "Entertainment"