Scores of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, members in Imo State, on Sunday marched out to the street of Owerri, protesting the Supreme Court sacking of Emeka Ihedioha, as governor of the state. The PDP, members wore black attire saying that they were not happy that Ihedioha, was removed by the Supreme Court. The protesters marched from the Okigwe road party secretariat to the front of Imo government house and returned back to the secretariat. They were seen blaming the Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, for the sacking of Ihedioha and that the outcome of the court case was shocking to them.  They “We are not happy return back Ihedioha this is an injustice to us and we will not accept this. You must do the right thing. Imo people are not happy.” Recalled Ihedioha, the sack was based on the grounds that he did not get the lawful votes expected of him to win the governorship election. By the Supreme Court verdict, Hope Uzodinma, of the All Progressives Congress, APC, was pronounced winner of the 2019 governorship election by the supreme after looking at his evidence and demands before the court part of which he said that his results were excluded by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. But the sacking of Ihedioha peeved the members of his party, who proposed that they would embark on a protest to express their dissatisfaction with the stand of the supreme court. vanguard By Chinonso Alozie Jubilation has taken over the political atmosphere of Imo state, after the supreme court declared Senator Hope Uzodinma, of the All Progressives Congress, APC, authentic winner of the 2019 governorship election. Vanguard observed on Tuesday, in Owerri, the celebration mood was high as some people were seen… January 14, 2020 In "Politics" The alliance among Imo political leaders especially governorship aspirants will begin immediately after the supreme court decides on the Imo governorship poll. December 23, 2019 In "News" By Chinonso Alozie There is confusion in Imo state over the suspended local government chairmen by governor Emeka Ihedioha, who have taken back their offices. Vanguard gathered on Monday in Owerri that the 27 suspended local government chairmen have resolved to move into their offices today as they said it… January 6, 2020 In "News"