Members of Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Bauchi zone have raised an alarm, alleging that the Nigerian government wants their leader Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky to die in detention. The National President, Association of Shi’ite Singers also called ‘Ittihadus Shu’ara Harakatil Islamiyya’, Malam Mustafa Gadonkaya, a disciple of the Sheikh, made the allegation at the weekend during the lunching of 100 songs in solidarity with the detained sheikh composed by the association in Bauchi. According to him, their leader was arrested and has been held captive by security agents since December 2015, adding that the authorities have refused to obey the court orders for his release, payment of compensation and reconstruction of his demolished buildings during the encounter between sect members and the Nigerian Army four years ago in Zaria. According to him, “It is known by everyone that our leader sued the federal government over human rights violation and a federal high court in Abuja ordered his release, reconstruction of his demolished residence and payment of compensation, but the government has disregarded the courts and refused to obey several court orders. What kind of injustice is this? “At the moment, everyone knows that he is very ill as a result of the gunshots he sustained but these people still keep him in detention despite his ill health. If anything happens to him, this government will be held responsible. “Worse still, the federal government accepted the request of Kaduna state government to hand him over for prosecution over some baseless accusations. Their motive is to continue to hold him until he dies in detention.” The group further demanded that the authorities should without further delay free El-zakzaky, his wife and other members, vowing that unless they are released unconditionally, their protests will continue. Vanguard Kaduna— The Islamic Movement in Nigeria, IMN, yesterday, raised the alarm that their leader, Sheikh Ibraheem El Zakzaky, who had been in detention for over two years, may die in government custody, following a deterioration of his health. January 11, 2018 In "News" The International Religious Freedom report released by the US Department of State’s Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labour for 2017 said, yesterday, that the Federal Government has not held soldiers implicated in the killing of over 300 Shi’ites accountable. May 31, 2018 In "News" Members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), otherwise known as Shi'ites, on Wednesday staged a protest at the United States Embassy in Abuja to express their frustrations over the continued detention of their leader, Ibraheem El-Zakzaky. January 9, 2019 In "News"