The Presidency said on Monday President Muhammadu Buhari would not handover government to a person who had stolen or would steal the nation’s money in 2023 The Presidency also said President Buhari would not handpick his successor but would ensure that his likely successor enjoys the support of Nigerians. The statement followed a call by the General Overseer of the Latter Rain Assembly, Pastor Tunde Bakare, that the President should influence the choice of his successor in 2023. Speaking as a guest on Channels Television’s Politics Today,  the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said Buhari would not handpick his successor and neither would he handover to those who would erase the successes recorded by his administration in the fight against corruption. He also reiterated the President resolve not to participate in elective position at the end of his tenure in 2023, adding that like anyone in a position of authority, President Buhari has his exit plan. He said: “By May 2023, God willing he (the President) will have finished his second term as President. He will not have stood for another term and he will be exiting. So, he has that at the back of his mind. “Pastor Bakare said the President should be interested in who succeeds him, yes, I’m sure the President will be interested in who succeeds him but he will not manipulate the process, to pick a successor. “The President will not pick a successor we know him, he is not somebody like that. Will he be interested in the process? Yes, he will. “He will ensure that there is a free, fair and credible election; that nobody would come to use money and resources to bamboozle his way into the leadership of the country. It will not happen. “The President will ensure free, fair and credible process but to handpick a successor? No, he will not do that.”  Vanguard  A POLITICAL support group, the Buhari Youth Organization, BYO, weekend gave reasons why it is necessary for the electorate in the Igbo- speaking states to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 election, arguing that it would be the quickest way for power to shift to the south in… November 11, 2018 In "News" Awka- A POLITICAL support group, the Buhari Youth Organization, BYO, weekend gave reasons why it is necessary for the electorate in the Igbo- speaking states to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 election, arguing that it would be the quickest way for power to shift to the south… November 11, 2018 In "News" A political pressure group working for actualisation of President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2019 re-election bid, Good Governance Ambassadors of Nigeria, GOGAN, yesterday, called on the people of South East geo-political zone to support the ambition of the president in order to pave way for an Igbo man to emerge Nigerian president… August 30, 2018 In "News"