Bauchi State Police Command said it had apprehended a man, Solomon Peters, who alledgedly stabbed his girlfriend, Miss Patience Zakari, to death in Bauchi following a disagreement over telephone call. Peters was all edged to have taken to his heels after committing the heinous crime in the early hours of Friday. Police Public Relations Officer in charge of Bauchi Command, DSP Kamal Abubakar, told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Bauchi that the suspect was arrested on Sunday in a yet to be disclosed location and is currently undergoing interrogation at the Command headquarters. “The Bauchi state police command, after swinging into action following the killing of Miss Patience Zakari,has apprehended the suspect,whose name is Solomon Peters. “He is now in our custody and currently undergoing interrogations by our officers. “He will be thoroughly investigated and charged to court for culpable homicide,” said the PPRO. NAN reports that the killing occurred in the house of the deceased in gwallameji area of Bauchi metropolis in the early hours of Friday. A telephone call from another male friend of the deceased had resulted in a heated argument, resulting in violent scuffle that led to jealous Peters stabbing Patience with a knife,before taking to his heels. Vanguard Tragedy struck in Bauchi on Friday when a jealous man, simply identified as ‘Solomon’ stabbed his girlfriend, Patience Zakkari, to death for picking a phone call from another man. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) Correspondent reports that the incident occurred around 1.30 am in the house of the deceased… January 26, 2020 In "News" Bauchi State Command of the Nigerian Police has paraded alleged prime suspect of the Bauchi birthday party violence which claimed four lives about two weeks ago. November 30, 2018 In "Crime Guard" THE Bauchi State Police Command has confirmed that 38 people have lost their lives including the leader of the Islamic sect, Kalo-Kato while 20 people were arrested following the religious crisis that engulfed some part of Bauchi metropolis on yesterday. December 29, 2009 In "News"