The Imo state Governor, Hope Uzodinma, has restored public water supply in Owerri metropolis. Uzodinma spoke on Wednesday, in Owerri, through his Chief Press Secretary, Oguwike Nwachukwu, adding that the governor, took the action immediately he discovered there were complaints of scarcity of water in the state capital. Some of the areas that have started enjoying public supply of water included Aladinma, Ikenegbu, Areas M, N, and C of World Bank, New Owerri. The governor said that efforts are ongoing to make the public water supply to the homes of every residents in and around  the state capital. It stated: “Imo State Government is pleased to announce that the Imo State Water and Sewage Corporation has restored public water supply to some parts of Owerri metropolis. “Specifically, pipe borne water now runs in parts of Aladinma and Ikenegbu in Owerri as well as in Areas M, N, and C of World Bank, New Owerri. “Imo people should be rest assured that Government is working round the clock to ensure that public water supply is restored in all parts of Owerri metropolis in the shortest possible time.” He pointed out that “Governor Hope Uzodinma on resumption of office was worried that there was scarcity of water in Owerri metropolis and has promised to ensure that the situation is rectified as quickly as possible. “To the Governor, provision of safe potable water is a major mantra of his administration and he regrets inconveniences during the period of interruption of water supply.” Vanguard By Chinonso Alozie, Owerri The Imo state governor, Hope Uzodinma, on Wednesday revealed his plans for Imo state, part of which he said a State Economic Development and Rehabilitation Council, SEDARC, will be established in Imo, in order to reinvigorate the economy. The governor spoke in Owerri, during his median… January 22, 2020 In "News" OWERRI—GOVERNOR Rochas Okorocha of Imo State and his party’s governorship candidate in the 2019 election, Senator Hope Uzodinma were yesterday locked in a war of words over using the governorship election to fight for immunity from criminal deeds. November 14, 2018 In "News" By Chinonso Alozie - Owerri Imo State governor, Hope Uzodinma, Tuesday announced that he has forfeited his security vote to enable him to meet up with the economic challenges in Imo, especially the payment of salaries and pension in the state. The governor spoke when he met with the Imo… January 28, 2020 In "News"