Manchester United are sweating on the fitness of Marcus Rashford ahead of this weekend’s clash with Liverpool after the forward was taken off due to injury in their FA Cup victory over Wolves. Rashford has become a key figure under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, scoring 19 goals in 30 appearances for the Red Devils this season. We’ve compared United’s record under Solskjaer when Rashford is in the starting XI to their record when he is on the bench or missing from the matchday squad altogether. With Rashford starting
Played: 50
Won: 24
Lost: 15
Drawn: 11
Goals for: 79
Goals against: 59 Points per game: 1.66
Win rate: 48%
Loss rate: 30%
Goals per game: 1.58
Goals against per game: 1.18 Without Rashford starting
Played: 13
Won: 8
Lost: 2
Drawn: 3
Goals for: 22
Goals against: 8 Points per game: 2.07
Win rate: 61.5%
Loss rate: 15.4%
Goals per game: 1.69
Goals against per game: 0.61 These stats don’t take into account the quality of the opposition, the standard of United’s line-up or a selection of other factors, but the Red Devils’ win rate is actually better when Rashford doesn’t start compared to when he is in the starting line-up. Surprisingly, United also scores more goals per game when Rashford doesn’t play from the start and their loss rate almost doubles when he starts, although it should be pointed out that it is a much smaller sample size. Either way, the stats would certainly appear to suggest Ole Gunnar Solskjaer should be able to cope even when Rashford is unavailable. Source: PlanetFootball Vanguard News Marcus Rashford is unlikely to be fit for Manchester United's clash with Liverpool on Sunday, according to manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. Rashford came off the bench and was involved in Juan Mata's winning goal just minutes later as United beat Wolves 1-0 in the FA Cup third-round replay. ALSO READ: Barkley… January 17, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester United's victory against Tottenham is a statement win for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer but the team's reliance on David de Gea's heroics in goal show the interim boss still has work to do. January 14, 2019 In "News" Manchester United proved on Sunday that their recovery under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is no flash in the pan, with Marcus Rashford pouncing to seal a 1-0 win in a thrilling contest against Tottenham. January 13, 2019 In "Sports"