Barely 48 hours after the Supreme Court sacked Chief Emeka Ihedioha as Imo State Governor, former Deputy National Auditor of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Regis Uwakwe, has dumped the party for the All Progressives Congress, APC. Addressing a press conference Thursday in Owerri, Chief Uwakwe explained that he opted to join the APC, following the current political events in Imo State and Nigeria, after due consultation with his family and political associates. “I was part of the Ali Modu Sheriff faction of the PDP, with the new Imo Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, while that crisis lasted. It is, however, sad to note that the ousted governor, Chief Ihedioha, neither implemented our terms of agreement nor appointed any of us to any office, during his short-lived administration”, Uwakwe said. Making reference to the Supreme Court judgment, the former PDP chieftain opined that since the position of the Apex Court is final, the citizenry must accept its judgment. “As I always tell people to support and pray for the Governor of Imo State, I do same for Senator Hope Uzodinma”, Uwakwe said. According to the new APC loyalist, “having worked closely with Senator Uzodinma, I am positive that he has the capacity, charisma, compassion and focus, to lead the state.” While blaming politicians, including himself, “for running away from the state, at the peak of Senator Rochas Okorocha’s autocratic rule”, Uwakwe, however, regretted that “relocating to Abuja or elsewhere, was a very costly mistake a lot of us made”. Vanguard Nigeria News ABUJA—The Supreme Court, yesterday, sacked Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State and declared Senator Hope Uzodinma of All Progressives Congress, APC, valid winner of the governorship election that held in the state on March 9, 2019. January 15, 2020 In "News" The Supreme Court said it will today, deliver judgement on appeals challenging the election of governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State. January 14, 2020 In "News" By Chinonso Alozie Jubilation has taken over the political atmosphere of Imo state, after the supreme court declared Senator Hope Uzodinma, of the All Progressives Congress, APC, authentic winner of the 2019 governorship election. Vanguard observed on Tuesday, in Owerri, the celebration mood was high as some people were seen… January 14, 2020 In "Politics"