The Iranian President, Hassan Rouhani, said on Wednesday the ultimate response to the killing of its top military commander, Qasem Soleimani was “to kick out United States forces from the Middle East.” Rouhani tweeted on his Twitter handle – @HassanRouhani and claimed that Soleimani’s war on terror saved European capitals from destabilisation. He said: “General Soleimani fought heroically against ISIS, Al Nusrah, Al Qaeda et al. If it weren’t for his war on terror, European capitals would be in great danger now. “Our final answer to his assassination will be to kick all US forces out of the region.” Soleimani, who was the head of the Revolutionary Guards’ Quds Force, an elite unit that handles Iran’s overseas operations, was killed in a US drone strike in Baghdad last Friday. The army general was killed on the order of US President, Donald Trump, who claimed he was supporting terrorism. Iran authorities had vowed proportionate retaliation to its military commander’s assassination by US troops. At least two airbases housing US troops in Iraq were on Wednesday hit by more than a dozen ballistic missiles ostensibly fired by Iranian forces. The Revolutionary Guard confirmed the attack, saying it was in retaliation for the military commander’s killing in the US drone strike.  Vanguard    Iranian military commander Qasem Soleimani will be laid to rest Tuesday in his hometown of Kerman, Iran as part of three days of ceremonies across the country, the Revolutionary Guards said. The US military killed Soleimani on Friday in an air strike outside Baghdad international airport that shocked the Islamic… January 4, 2020 In "Foreign" Tens of thousands of Iranians thronged the streets of Tehran on Monday for the funeral of Quds Force commander Qassem Soleimani who was killed in a U.S. airstrike last week and his daughter said his death would bring a “dark day” for the United States. “Crazy Trump, don’t think that… January 6, 2020 In "Foreign" US President Donald Trump on Friday said the United States killed top Iranian military commander Qasem Soleimani to stop a war. Addressing newsmen in Florida, Trump alleged that Soleimani was “plotting imminent and sinister attacks on American diplomats and military personnel, but we caught him in the act and terminated… January 4, 2020 In "Foreign"