LAGOS—THE  Lagos State government, yesterday, said that it pulled down the Fela Anikulapo-Kuti’s statue at Allen Roundabout for the improvement of road infrastructure and to ease traffic gridlock in the state. Gboyega Akosile, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, told  PREMIUM TIMES  that the roundabout had been identified as the cause of traffic gridlock in the area and there is need to reduce the roundabout and ultimately remove the statue. Akosile said: “We are the ones that erected it as the Lagos State government, the only constant thing in life is change and the state government has decided to change it.” The statue was unveiled on October 15, 2017, by the immediate past governor of the state, Akinwunmi Ambode, to honour the late Afrobeat legend and freedom fighter. While stating the reason for the removal of the statue, Mr. Akosile said: “For the improvement of the traffic situation, we realised there is a need to do junction improvement and about five junctions were identified.” “The five junctions and roundabouts in Iyana-Ejigbo, Lekki-Epe Expressway, Allen Avenue, and Maryland will be reduced to pave way for road expansion and free flow of traffic. “While Maryland and Allen roundabouts have artworks at the Centre, the statues and sculptures will be removed because of the road engineering work that needs to be done.” Vanguard Governor Akinwumi Ambode at unveiling of Fela Anikulapo-Kuti statue titled - the liberation, visits to the Klakuta museum. October 15, 2017 In "News" Lagos State Governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode on Sunday eulogized the virtues of late Afrobeat legend and freedom fighter, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti describing him as an enigmatic artiste who used the platform of his art to agitate for social and human rights by challenging government and people to explore development through social and economic… October 15, 2017 In "Music" A statue is a sculpture, representing one or more people. In Lagos, there are a number of statues of illustrious personalities dotted in different parts of the state. Jumia Travel, the leading online travel agency, identifies the locations of some of these statues which you can visit. May 5, 2018 In "News"