The Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde has reacted to the pronouncement of the South West security outfit coded: “Operation Amotekun” illegal by the office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. Makinde said he has received no letter or call from the AGF, Abubakar Malami on the situation aside from seeing it on social media. “My personal position is that you actually don’t run a government on social media. “If I see a letter or a call from the AGF telling me what he just said, then it will be a different reaction. But I have been reading it just like you read it on social media. I haven’t seen anything official to that effect. “I don’t think in a country like Nigeria, the AGF will just wake up and make his own laws. He may interpret and advise the President on the issue,” the governor said. Makinde communicated his response while speaking to journalists after a closed-door with the former president of Nigeria, Olusegun Obasanjo. “I have come to visit Baba to wish him happy new year. You know, he is Our Baba”. He noted that Amotekun was formed to complement the efforts of the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies in the country. “This outfit is to complement the efforts of the Nigerian Police and other security agencies in fighting insecurity in the Southwest region of the country.” Vanguard News Nigeria. James Ogunnaike Oyo State governor, Engr Seyi Makinde on Wednesday visited former President Olusegun Obasanjo at his private residence located in the premises of Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. Makinde, who got to Obasanjo's residence around 2:30 pm had a closed-door meeting with his host.… January 16, 2020 In "News" S-West governors dare FG No going back on outfit — Akeredolu Malami lacks power to ban it — Makinde Amotekun has come to stay — Soyinka By Dayo Johnson, Dapo Akinrefon, Peter Duru, Ola Ajayi, Henry Ojelu & James Ogunnaike Following Tuesday’s declaration by the Attorney-General of the Federation and… January 16, 2020 In "News" Ola Ajayi - Ibadan As six governors in the South-West zone of the country launched a joint security outfit tagged Western Nigeria Security Network (Operation Amotekun) last Thursday, the Soludero Hunters' Association has called on the initiators to organise a parley where all the personnel would meet to identify themselves.… January 15, 2020 In "News"