Entertainment PR man and musician, Miraboi has picked Davido as the number one musician in Africa. In a chat with Showtime he said no one has put Nigerian on the world map than Davido Buhari greets renowned folk musician, Tunji Oyelana at 80 He said, “I’m not trying to create any controversy or make anyone feel bad but what Davido has done for African and Nigerian music is unprecedented. Without him I don’t Nigerian music or African music for that matter, would have been appreciated as much as it has on the international scene.” He argued that the ‘Risky’ crooner has brought joy and blessings to so many through his brand of music regardless of other shortcomings he may have. “ I don’t think any Nigerian should have to hate Davido for any good or bad reason. No musician of his generation has made more positive impact on our youth than him and I don’t think any one can sincerely say they don’t like his kind of music. His back to back hit is a testimony of his greatness and Africa should celebrate him,” he added. Miraboi, born Miracle Kelechi Chike started his journey in the entertainment as a Public Relations hype man until last year when he dabbled full scale into music with his debut single “My Baby” and it has since been enjoying rave reviews. Talking about his plans for 2020, he said the world should expect great works from him. 1960: Africa’s year of independence “My plans are big for 2020. I have plans to feature the likes of Davido and Zlatan on different singles. I believe God is at work, so let’s see how far is gonna go. I will also be dropping the video of my debut single “My Baby,” he said. Vanguard Entertainment PR hotshot, Miracle Chike popularly known as Yung Miraboi who has promoted many singers in the past has stepped out of the shadows into the limelight with his first musical effort “My Baby” using just 'Miraboi' as his stage name December 15, 2019 In "Entertainment" Having conquered the very discouraging music industry in his home country, popular Zimbabwean musician, Ngonidzashe Dondo, better known by his stage name, King 98, thought it pertinent to expand his music frontiers by coming to Nigeria to have a feel of the music ambience and equally promote his brand of… September 12, 2019 In "Entertainment" Having conquered the very discouraging music industry in his home country, popular Zimbabwean musician, Ngonidzashe Dondo, better known by his stage name as King 98, thought it pertinent to expand his music frontiers by coming to Nigeria to have a feel of the music ambiance and equally promote his brand… September 12, 2019 In "Entertainment"