The Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, on Wednesday urged leaders and politicians in the country to protect the interest of the poor and less privileged in the society. Sanusi, who represented the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III, made the call at the 3rd General Assembly and peace conference with the theme: ”Inter-Religious Dialogue: Strengthening the Culture of Peace, Reconciliation, and Justice,” in Abuja. The monarch said that avoiding marginalisation of the less privileged would reduce illiteracy, poverty and social vices. He advised Nigerians to ensure peaceful co-existence and unity to address various challenges facing them. According to him, each religion should respect the ethics and values of others, whoever takes the life of another man is a criminal and should be punished as a criminal. He said: ”Christians and Muslims must come together and fight the major challenges facing us which are malnutrition, drug problems, out of school children and poverty amongst many others.” Sanusi, however, urged Nigerians to recognise, identify and address the internal problems challenging the country, which had led to increased poverty and social vices. The President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Samson Ayokunle, who refused to speak at the conference, stressed that all the previous Interfaith dialogue did not yield any fruit. Bishop Matthew Kukah of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Sokoto stressed that Nigeria must move from talking to taking action and this according to him, was the way out. Kukah added that there was no place in the world where human beings were slaughtered anyhow without the perpetrators being caught and brought to justice. He said the country must find a way to end wanton killings of innocent citizens, adding that it was time for religious leaders to step aside and allow Nigerians to confront the government themselves. (NAN)  Vanguard  AS Nigerians joined the rest of the world to celebrate this year’s Eid-el-Fitr, governors, clerics and political leaders have called on Muslims to replicate the lessons of the Ramadan in their lives while calling for  peace and national cohesion Nigerians have also been advised to continue to promote unity, love,… June 16, 2018 In "News" Governor Rabi’u Kwankwaso of Kano State , Saturday, presented the staff of office to the 14th Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II. February 7, 2015 In "News" Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has described the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III as a worthy scion of his fore-fathers. November 3, 2016 In "News"