Winger Anthony Watson will miss England’s opening match in the Six Nations against France this weekend with a calf injury, England Rugby announced on Thursday. Watson, 25, who featured in all of his side’s games at last year’s Rugby World Cup where they lost to South Africa in the final, suffered the problem before joining up with the international set-up. Bruno Fernandes feels ‘incredible’ after £67.8m Man United move https://t.co/GEhYusD34M #vanguardnews pic.twitter.com/Pv233SK5ns — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) January 30, 2020  Coach Eddie Jones is expected to name either Ollie Thorley or George Furbank, who are both uncapped, on the wing for the trip to Paris on Sunday. Saracens’ Owen Farrell, Jamie George, Maro Itoje, George Kruis, Mako Vunipola and Elliott Daly are also included in the 25-man travelling squad to the French capital. Boateng and Goretzka fight during Bayern Munich training https://t.co/IJpptL5NvW #vanguardnews pic.twitter.com/Dolox4ip2g — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) January 30, 2020  The reigning Rugby Premiership and European Cup champions will be relegated from the English top-flight at the end of the season for salary cap infringements. Hooker Luke Cowan-Dickie will re-join Jones’ set-up after leaving the squad for family reasons earlier in the week. VANGUARD Sporting Lisbon midfielder Bruno Fernandes has completed his move to Manchester United on a five-and-a-half-year deal, the Premier League club have announced. Manchester United have completed the signing of Portugal midfielder Bruno Fernandes from Sporting Lisbon. The 25-year-old has signed a five-and-a-half-year contract, with the option of a further 12-month… January 30, 2020 In "Sports" England's World Cup build-up has been disrupted by claims of a spat between Ben Te'o and Mike Brown and a clutch of injury withdrawals before Sunday's Test against Six Nations champions Wales. August 10, 2019 In "Sports" Winger Jonny May scored two tries in three first-half minutes as England underlined their Rugby World Cup credentials with a dominant 40-16 win over Australia on Saturday. The win helped them to set up a semi-final against New Zealand or Ireland. Four years after the Wallabies sent England packing out… October 19, 2019 In "News"