Five development-focused women entrepreneurs that won UK-Nigeria Tech Hub competition will be leaving for United Kingdom for African Investment Summit, this month. Equities market closes end of year positive as investors gain N112.4 bn The winners emerged from the 10 finalists at a keenly contested pitch programme in Lagos recently. The winning tech women include: an EduFinTech company, ScholarX by Damilola Emuze; a credit inclusion company, Schecluded by Ifeoma Uddoh; shulttler platform, Shuttlers Mobility by Damilola Olokesusi; a health tech, Mobihealth, by Dr. Funmi Adewara and FinTech Company, Limestart by Keturah Ovio. Country Director, UK-Nigeria Tech Hub, Honey Ogundeyi, said the summit where the winners will be leaving for will also bring 15 other most ambitious development-focused women entrepreneurs where they will gain access to world-class mentoring, have time with UK investors and expert training to help scale their company.. Ogundeyi said: “Our programme aims to support gender inclusive economic growth with a specific focus on empowering women with the skills and connections to overcome the existing digital gender gap.” British Deputy High Commissioner, Nigeria, Harriet Thompson, in her keynote address, said UK has noticed that information and communication technology, ICT sector accounts to 11 percent to Nigerian  Gross Domestic Product, GDP in 2018 and it is the fastest growing part of Nigerian economy. Thompson said: “The UK is an incredible partner. We generate more billion dollar tech businesses than any other continent. We have a network of regional tech clusters which reflect the dynamic and growing industry across the whole of the UK. UK is uniquely placed to spearhead the digital transformational society. We want to be Nigerian partner choice sector. Silver Fox partners Iru LCDA to ease gridlock “The winners of today’s competition are a milestone of a longer journey to create a best business environment and find the best business partners.” Vanguard Five Female entrepreneurs on Thursday emerged winners at the UK-Nigeria Tech Hub pitch competition aimed at supporting gender-inclusive economic growth. Honey Ogundeyi, the Country Director of the UK-Nigeria Tech Hub, said that the programme was aimed at bringing 15 of the continent’s most ambitious development-focused women entrepreneurs to the United… December 12, 2019 In "News" 3 women-led businesses - a fashion company, an Ed-Tech start-up, and an AI-solution based education platform has emerged winners of the 2019 ‘She Leads Africa Demo Day’ organized by She Leads Africa, a community that helps young African women achieved their professional dreams. The Demo Day which took place in… November 21, 2019 In "News" Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Akinwumi Ambode, delivered the keynote speech entitled ‘The Role of Technopreneurs in Lagos: An Emerging Smart City. April 27, 2018 In "News"