Special Adviser on Political Matters to Edo State Governor, Chief Osaro Idah, has said the embattled National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) deprived Governor Godwin Obaseki of nominating federal appointees from Edo State. In a meeting with ward leaders in Oredo Local Government Area, Chief Idah said unlike Chief Odigie Oyegun as National Chairman of the APC, who would not interfere with federal appointments in the state, Oshiomhole continued to interfere in such appointments. He said Obaseki had hitherto always allowed Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to have his way in order to preserve the peace in the state. He revealed that of the eight federal slots assigned to Edo State, the governor recommended only one person, but Oshiomhole still interfered and the person was dropped. According to him, “Edo had eight slots for its indigenes for federal appointments, but Comrade Adams Oshiomhole filled all the positions. The only nominee the governor submitted for National Population Commission (NPC) Comrade Oshiomhole replaced him with his person.” Chairman Edo State Chapter of the APC, Anselm Ojezua, called on the ward leaders in Oredo to support the Governor who is their son. He said no other Edo State Governor has supported the party as Obaseki has done in the last three years, noting, “I urge you to support your son and never allow anyone treat him anyhow. Possess your possession!” The meeting had in attendance prominent members of the APC in  Oredo Local Government, including the ward and local council leaders, who were feted by the state governor. Vanguard News WHEN Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State posited, last weekend, at the 2019 annual retreat and convention of the Usagbe Club of Nigeria in Abuja that  “there is no rift between the  National Chairman of All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and I, as is being projected by people”,… July 13, 2019 In "News" The Special Adviser to Edo State Governor on Political and Community Matters, Chief Osaro Idah, has said that Governor Godwin Obaseki has no plan of leaving the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the governorship election in the state in 2020. July 16, 2019 In "News" Edo State is one of the states in the country where the politics has always attracted the attention of the nation due to the fact that the players are politically sophisticated. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ruled in the state during the leadership of late Chief Tony Anenih until November 12,… April 20, 2019 In "News"