The Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, yesterday, retained the 65 per cent Loan to Deposit Ratio, LDR, for commercial banks in Nigeria. In a circular dated January 7, 2020, signed by Director of Banking Supervision, Mr Ahmad Abdullahi, CBN said it decided to retain LDR at 65 per cent because it observed a significant improvement in credit to the real sector. It said: “CBN has noticed a remarkable increase in the size of gross credit by the Deposit Money Banks (DMB) to customers. Accordingly, CBN has decided to retain the minimum 65% Loan Deposit Ratio (LDR) in the interim. “All DMBs are required to maintain that level and are further advised that average daily figures shall be applied to assess compliance going forward. “The incentive which assigns a weight of 150 per cent in respect of lending to SMEs, retail mortgage and consumer lending shall continue to apply while failure to achieve the target shall continue to attract a levy of additional Cash Reserve Requirement at 50 per cent of the lending shortfall of the target LDR on or before March 31st 2020.” The apex bank, however, advised the banks to maintain strong risk management practices regarding their lending operations, adding that it would continue to monitor compliance, review market developments and make further alterations in LDR as it deems appropriate. Vanguard Cost of funds spikes by 313% By Babajide Komolafe The Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, yesterday, deducted N650 billion from the account of some banks as Cash Reserve Ratio, CRR, the levy for failure to meet the 65 per cent Loan to Deposit Ratio, LDR. This resulted in a scarcity… December 26, 2019 In "Business" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said on Wednesday it has retained the minimum 65 percent Loan Deposit Ratio (LDR) in the interim. The apex bank disclosed this in a circular signed by its Director of Banking Supervision, Mr. Ahmad Abdullahi, in Abuja. The CBN said it had noticed a… January 8, 2020 In "News" In a bid to further stimulate lending to the economy, the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN,  yesterday,  said bank deposit placement through its Standing Deposit Facility, SDF, in excess of N2 billion will not attract interest payment. July 11, 2019 In "Business"