Mike Bloomberg’s ad spending for his presidential campaign has already surpassed $200 million nearly equaling the combined ad spending by all the other Democratic candidates, according to a new report. And the billionaire has only been in the race for about seven weeks. “With buys from this morning accounted for, @Mike Bloomberg has surpassed $200 M – the rest of the field has spent $222M combined,” the ad-tracking group Advertising Analytics reported in a tweet Friday. Bloomberg’s ads have been ubiquitous on the airwaves in New York and other states where Democrats will vote in primary elections in March and April. He is not focusing on the early-voting states of Iowa and New Hampshire. The former three-term New York City mayor is spending so much money on television spots across the country that it’s squeezing out air time for others and causing ad rates to soar, Advertising Analytics said in a prior report. Experts say Bloomberg’s total campaign spending totals could easily cross the $1 billion mark if he wins the nomination to challenge President Trump in November. Bloomberg has said he will spend “whatever it takes” to defeat Trump and will continue the effort to topple the Republican incumbent even if he loses the Democratic nomination. Source: New York Post Vanguard News United States President, Donald Trump’s campaign team says it is unfazed by billionaire Michael Bloomberg’s spending in the race for the Democratic nomination. Bloomberg has spent more than 100 million dollars of his own money on advertising and voter registration efforts for a relatively late entry in the race for the… December 27, 2019 In "Foreign" President Donald Trump’s re-election campaign said on Monday it will no longer issue press credentials to reporters working for Bloomberg News, the agency owned by Democratic presidential hopeful Michael Bloomberg. The news agency said following Bloomberg’s announcement of his presidential bid that it would no longer critically cover the Democratic… December 2, 2019 In "Foreign" Michael Bloomberg, one of the richest men in the world and a former United States' New York City Mayor, has formally launched a bid for US presidential seat. Formerly a Republican, the 77-year-old will be contesting on the Democratic platform. After weeks of speculation on the authenticity of his aspiration,… November 25, 2019 In "Foreign"