Fresh trouble may be in the offing for the music rave of the moment, Naira Marley as Child Right Advocates in Lagos State had risen against him. When Go Slo was launched According to group, the manner at which the children are being corrupted by the artiste is worrisome. They maintained that the artist may need to face sanction if not tread with caution, especially as innocent children are being polluted with his different campaigns. “Currently, there is a real madness going on among the Nigerian youths all over the country now. The followers of a musician called Naira Marely are spreading like wildfire. All concerned stakeholders especially parents, please, be careful and get conscious of this trend and movement. Many high school students and undergraduates are the chief followers of this guy. They call themselves Marlians,” they said. Court orders Naira Marley to appear before it Jan 14 They said “Marlians don’t have manners and don’t give a damn”. They smoke India hemp and other banned substances freely, without caution. “Monitor your children and wards. The manners and anthems are getting beyond our thoughts and are very ferocious. It’s high time we got hold of it before our future is taken away from us. As parents, we owe our children that duty of care and moral directional guides in the way of the Lord”, a Child advocate, Mrs Racheal lamented. Vanguard Controversies trailing the incarceration of Nigerian street music rapper, Azeez Fashola, a.k.a Naira Marley, following a Federal High Court’s order to remand him in prison pending the consideration of his bail application on May 30, 2019, are beginning to get messy as a fan has threatened to assassinate Ruggedman and… May 23, 2019 In "Entertainment" Following the arrest of Nigerian musicians, Afeez Fashola, a.k.a Naira Marley, rapper, Omoniyi Temidayo Raphael, a.k.a Zlatan Ibile, popular dancer, Tiamiu Abdulrahman Kayode, a.k.a Rahman Jago and two others, by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), on Friday, May 10, 2019, at Ikate, Lekki, Lagos, for their alleged involvement… May 14, 2019 In "Entertainment" Following the bail granted Naira Marley by an Ikeja High Court sitting in Lagos during the week, after temporarily staying in EFCC custody for charges bordering on credit card fraud, veteran rapper, Ruggedman, who before Marley was arrested had condemned him for encouraging cyber crime, has stated that if he… June 1, 2019 In "Entertainment"