Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Works and Housing, has said that state governments that desire roads must be prepared to pay compensations to citizens whose lands enter road construction plans. The minister said this on Monday when he commenced a two-day inspection of highway projects in Niger. According to him, every road project must pass through somebody’s land. “It is the responsibility of  state governments and Local Government Areas to settle these challenges so that the Federal Government can face the problem of funding the construction of these roads. “I believe that we will help where we can; the stand of the federal government is that the states that want to see these roads delivered must deal with these challenges. “One of the issues that bring about such challenges is the land use act which is over 40 years. “The complaint of funding is already in public view that is why members of the press have been asked to join on these tours to see the real state of things. “The concern of Nigerians on government borrowing is legitimate, but the borrowing should be weighed with the problems they are used to solve. “People need the infrastructure; if they can see that the money borrowed is being used to deliver critical infrastructure,  then their queries can be assuaged,”Fashola said. The minister added that a country’s state of development was also measured by its road infrastructure. He further said that good awareness and sensitisation should be done to educate people on the fact that most roads were well built and had only been forced to deteriorate following misuse, especially the over loading of vehicles. The minister was received in Agaie by the Etsu of Agaie, Alhaji Yusuf Nuhu.  Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, on Saturday, said work is ongoing at the second Niger Bridge as compensation from both end of Anambra and Delta hit N5billion. May 19, 2018 In "News" By Favour Nnabugwu Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, on Saturday, said work is ongoing at the second Niger Bridge as compensation from both end of Anambra and Delta hit N5billion. Fashola also said all payment for the completion of Zik’s Mausoleum has been made to the… May 20, 2018 In "News" UMUAHIA—POWER, Works and Housing Minister, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, has approved the payment of about N133 million compensation to five Abia communities whose lands were acquired for the construction of trailer parks at Lokpanta Cattle market, on the Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway, Umunneochi council area of Abia State. May 23, 2018 In "News"