The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has fixed January 25, 2020, for the court ordered rerun and supplementary election in Imo State, for the Okigwe/Onuimo/Isiala Mbano federal constituency. Similarly, elections in 18 polling units of Orlu/Orsu/Oru East federal constituency of Imo state and 12 polling units of Njaba state constituencies in Imo, will also hold same day. The State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Professor Francis Ezeonu, who disclosed this yesterday, while addressing a stakeholders meeting on the elections in Imo, Owerri, also said that all the 18 polling units designated for supplementary elections in the Orlu/Orsu/Oru East federal constituency are in Imo, Orlu local council area. “We will retain all logistics arrangements made during the general elections. To that effect, we will use the earlier approved ward and local government collation centres”, Ezeonu said. He appealed to stakeholders and communities to help maintain the sanctity and security of all the centres designated for the exercise. “There will be restriction of movement in all the constituencies where election will be held. We wish to restate that this exercise is restricted to only political parties that participated in the earlier elections, for which a rerun or supplementary election has been ordered”, Ezeonu said. According to the INEC RECin Imo, the Commission has completed the reconciliation of election results in the two constituencies where supplementary elections are scheduled to hold, stressing that for transparency, his office would share the data with the participating political parties. Answering some questions raised by the party officials, Professor Ezeonu said that the score of zero would be recorded for any polling unit where the smart card reader is not used during the exercise. Vanguard recalls that all the security agencies were also represented at the meeting. Vanguard The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed Jan. 25, 2020 to conduct 28 outstanding court-ordered re-run elections in 12 states. The commission announced this in a statement issued by Mr. Festus Okoye,  National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee on Thursday in Abuja. Okoye said that the… December 5, 2019 In "Politics" By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has urged stakeholders in the electoral space to cooperate with it in order to effectively conclude the supplementary election in Kogi West Senatorial District as well as the rerun election in the Ajaokuta Federal Constituency. The Commission made the… November 22, 2019 In "News" TWO-term Senate President, Senator David Mark, will today know whether or not he will return to the Senate to continue with his fifth term representing Benue South Senatorial District of Benue State on the banner of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. February 20, 2016 In "News"