The Russian army announced Thursday that a ceasefire has begun in Syria’s Idlib, the last major opposition stronghold in the country, in accordance with a Russ-a-Turkey agreement. From 1100 GMT “a ceasefire has been in place in the de-escalation zone of Idlib,” the Russian military’s Centre for Reconciliation in Syria said in a statement. Despite a ceasefire announced in August 2019, the Syrian regime backed by Moscow has in recent weeks ramped up its attacks on the jihadist-held bastion of Idlib, in northwest Syria against rebels backed by Ankara, provoking a surge of displaced people heading towards Turkey. In December alone some 284,000 people fled the bombardments and fighting, especially in southern Idlib, according to the United Nations. Thursday”s announcement came a day after Russian President Vladimir Putin held talks in Istanbul with his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The leaders used a joint statement to call for a truce “supported by the necessary measures to be taken for stabilising the situation on the ground” in Libya. On Tuesday Turkey had called for Russia to stop the regime attacks on Idlib and respect the August ceasefire. Syria’s war has killed more than 380,000 people and displaced millions since it started in 2011. Russia launched a military intervention in support of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime in 2015, helping his forces to reclaim large parts of the country from opposition fighters and jihadists. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Syrian President Bashar al Assad on Tuesday denounced Turkey’s leader as a thief for attacking the northeast of his country and reiterated a pledge to retake all areas lost to Damascus in years of civil war, state media reported. Assad made the remarks as he made a rare visit to… October 23, 2019 In "Foreign" Syria's war has spiralled into a complex multi-sided conflict since it began with anti-government protests in March 2011, drawing in regional and international powers including the United States and Russia. October 17, 2017 In "News" President Tayyip Erdogan said on Thursday up to 250,000 migrants were fleeing toward Turkey from Syria’s northwest Idlib region after weeks of renewed bombardment by Russian and Syrian government forces. Turkey already hosts some 3.7 million Syrian refugees, the largest refugee population in the world, and Erdogan said it was… January 2, 2020 In "Foreign"