The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Sunday said the reason governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC, are defending last week Supreme Court judgment on Imo governorship election is because many of them “are products of huge electoral manipulations.” This is even as the party noted that APC governors’ attempt at cheap blackmail will never stop it and millions of Nigerians from demanding a review and reversal of the judgment in which the Supreme Court “manufactured and donated fictitious votes to name a 4th position candidate, winner of the Imo state governorship election. In a statement issued by the party’s spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said: “It’s rather not surprising to many that the APC governors could allow themselves to be enlisted to haul insults at the PDP with a view to blur and distort this grave miscarriage of justice because many of them are products and beneficiaries of electoral manipulations.” The statement continued: “The APC governors’ part in this script appears very glaring. Of course, who else will the flies support except a person with open smelly sore? “This is also why APC governors are encouraging their party to engage in underhand measures and supporting injustice instead of following democratic processes. “In comparing the Imo State judgment to that of Zamfara and Rivers states governorship elections, the APC governors forgot that Nigerians are abreast of the facts. “The APC governors deliberately veiled the fact that they lost Zamfara and Rivers as a result of their internal wrangling over their failure to conduct a credible primary, which voided their votes and left the party with the second-highest number of votes as the winner. “This is different from the judgment on Imo where fictitious votes were manufactured by the Supreme Court and donated to the APC to lift it from the fourth position and declared winner. “In making their plea for the rejected judgment, the APC governors should explain to Nigerians how the Supreme Court, in its bid to award votes to APC, ended up declaring total valid votes of 950, 952 votes above the INEC’s official 823,743 a total number of accredited voters for the election. “Can the APC governors explain to Nigerians how and where the Supreme Court manufactured the extra 127,743 votes above the number of accredited voters. “What can they say to the fact that the Supreme Court could not produce the details of the votes from each of the fictitious 388 polling units, upon which it based the ruling? “Furthermore, can the APC governors explain why the Supreme Court somersaulted on its declaration on a host of cases, particularly the Atiku vs Buhari case, that for a petitioner to succeed in allegation of infraction of any provision of the Electoral Act, especially one complaining about malpractice, the petitioner must call witnesses polling unit by polling units. “The APC governors should, therefore, steer clear of the Imo judgment as the PDP will never abandon the determination to get the judgment reversed.” Vanguard ABUJA—The Supreme Court, yesterday, sacked Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State and declared Senator Hope Uzodinma of All Progressives Congress, APC, valid winner of the governorship election that held in the state on March 9, 2019. January 15, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has commended the Supreme Court for the `courage and perseverance’ to return Sen. Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the March 9, 2019 governorship election in Imo. The president made the commendation while reacting to Tuesday’s Supreme Court judgment that sacked Emeka Ihedioha… January 14, 2020 In "Politics" It is no longer news that in line with last week’s decision of the Supreme Court, Senator Hope Uzodinma is now the Imo sState governor. Having decided that the exclusion of certain votes in his favour during the collation of votes at the last governorship election in the state was… January 19, 2020 In "Nigeria Today"