The military authority said at least 608 repentant Boko Haram insurgents are currently undergoing De-radicalisation, Rehabilitation and Reintegration (DRR) Programme put together by Operation Safe Corridor (OSC) at Malam-Sidi, Gombe State. The Commandant of DRR Camp OSC, Brig. Gen. Musa Ibrahim, stated this when the Managing Director of the North East Development Commission (NEDC), Mr. Mohammed Alkali, visited the camp on Saturday. He said 14 of the repentant insurgents were foreigners from Cameroon, Chad and Niger Republic. Ibrahim said: “From inception, we received 893 out of which 286 graduated and were returned to their respective states and countries for reintegration.” He said the personnel in the camp were working diligently with the mandate of OSC in conformity with international best practices. According to him, the success of the programme will go a long way in restoring peace and security to the North East in particular and the country as a whole. Ibrahim said the programme was in need of five Hilux vans, additional vocational center, accommodation for camp staff and clients, and prompt release of funds to run the power generator among others. In his remarks, Alkali said the purpose of his visit was to have an on the spot assessment of how the programme was being run. He said NEDC would do everything possible to ensure that the programme succeeds by providing them with the needed facilities.  (NAN)  Vanguard  The military authority says no fewer than 608 repentant Boko Haram insurgents are currently undergoing De-radicalisation, Rehabilitation and Reintegration (DRR) Programme by Operation Safe Corridor (OSC) at Malam-Sidi, Gombe State. Brig:- Gen. Musa Ibrahim, Commandant DRR Camp OSC made this known when the Managing Director, North East Development Commission (NEDC),… January 18, 2020 In "News" The Defence Headquarters said on Thursday that Operation Safe Corridor (OPSC) of Nigerian military has handed over 86 Boko Haram child fighters to Borno State Rehabilitation Centre in Bulumkutu. The Acting Director of Defence Information, Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, in a statement, said the fighters voluntarily surrendered to troops of Operation… November 7, 2019 In "News" The first set of 95 surrendered Boko Haram Fighters who have completed a component of Deradicalization, Rehabilitation and Reintegration (DRR) Programme would be reunited with their families. January 18, 2018 In "News"