THE Action Democratic Party, ADP, Buhari asked President Muhammadu Buhari to as a matter of urgency, sack the Service Chiefs following their failure to end security challenges confronting Nigeria, with continued killings and destruction of property by Armed Bandits. According to ADP,  the time has come for  Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Olonisakin; National Security Adviser, NSA, Major- General Mohammed Babagana Monguno; Chief of Army Staff, General Tukur Yusuf Buratai; Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar and Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Marshal Ibok- Ete Ibas to go because they have outlived their usefulness. A statement by ADP National Chairman, Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani called on President Muhammadu Buhari to know that: “History does not remember Generals but Kings”; the embarrassing inexplicable breakdown of the nations security architecture under your watch if not halted would become an undoing of your administration not the record of service of your Service Chiefs. “The growing insecurity in the nation has become very alarming lately, hence the need for the immediate sack of the Service Chiefs, who under normal circumstances should have resigned their positions voluntarily having failed to deliver on their mandate in spite of the unprecedented financial and morale support laundered on them by the Federal government. “A case in point is the recent rain of terror by suspected bandits and herdsmen on innocent citizens in some parts of Plateau, Niger, Benue, Kaduna, Zamfara, Edo and Katsina states. “It will be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari recently expressed surprise at the current surge of insecurity challenges accross the country, having previously promised to end insecurity in the country during his campaign. “ADP wishes to state fact that Nigerians in all spheres of endeavour are living in perpetual fear of either being abducted, killed or robbed due to the unchecked escalation of activities of Boko Haram, ISWAP, bandits, killer herdsmen, kidnappers or armed robbers. “We wish to draw the attention of His Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR that at this critical period in our nation’s history where insecurity occasioned by incessant cases of kidnappings, banditry, communal clashes is at its peak, there is an urgent need to sack the current Service Chiefs and appoint a new set of security Chiefs whose vibrancy and fresh ideas will yeild the desired result. “We urge all religious, traditional and community institutions to counsel their subjects on the need to remain calm and tolerant of one another by exhibiting the culture of unity and peace as law abiding citizens. “The ADP also call on all Nigerians to embrace the virtues of peace, love, unity and accommodation of one another for national prosperity and progress.” Vanguard FOR Six hours Wednesday, Security challenges in the country formed the discourse by the Senators at the hallowed chamber, with a verdict that for the very fact that the Security Infrastructure has failed in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari, to as a matter of urgency declare a National Security Emergency. January 29, 2020 In "News" AS President Muhammadu Buhari gets set to pilot the affairs of the country for the next four years, following his swearing in last Wednesday after his victory at the 2019 president election, a group loyal to his party, the All Progressives Congress, APC,has appealed to him to immediately relieve the… June 2, 2019 In "News" In an apparent bid to re-jig the nation’s security apparatus in the wave of growing insurgent attacks and suicide bombings, President Muhammadu Buhari, 45 days after assuming office, yesterday sacked all the service chiefs and appointed replacements whom he said were chosen on merit. July 14, 2015 In "Headlines"