Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, who is also the Chairman of Nigeria Governors Forum, diagnoses 20 years of democracy in Nigeria at the 17th Edition of Daily Trust Dialogue. Excerpts: 1.All over the world, democracy seems to be facing an existential crisis and there seems to exist an ideological inertial, or disillusionment. In his latest book, III Winds (2019), Larry. Diamond captures the essence of this crisis when he writes that: “After three decades in which democracy was spreading and another in which it was stagnating and slowly eroding, we are now witnessing a global retreat from freedom. In every region of the world, autocrats are seizing the initiative, democrats are on the defensive, and the space for competitive politics and free expression is shrinking. Established democracies are facing relentless scandals, sweeping citizen disaffection, and existential threats to their survival.” (Diamond, 2019) Democratization of Political Space Giving Citizenship a Meaning It is time for our constitution to place premium on residency rather than indigeneity as the defining principle of citizenship. Looking Back, Looking Forward Towards a More Perfect Union Vanguard CHAIRMAN, Nigeria Governors' Forum, NGF and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi has taken a swipe at the entire political class and elite in the country, saying  that the political elite has so far  democratized poverty instead of democratizing hope. September 18, 2019 In "News" By Rotimi Ojomoyela Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has said the newly launched Western Nigeria Security Network code-named Operation Amotekun is not out to undermine the integrity and sovereignty of Nigeria but were providing the Yoruba people with a "confidence-building strategy" to tackle crime and criminality in the region.… January 9, 2020 In "News" Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on their inauguration for a second term. May 29, 2019 In "News"