United States President, Donald Trump on Thursday unveiled what he called a “beautiful” acronym for NATO deployments in the Middle East — NATOME. “I actually had a name: NATO, right, and then you have ME — Middle East. NATOME. I said, what a beautiful name,” Trump told reporters, in extensive comments about the issue. “NATO plus ME,” he said. He said he’d proposed the acronym when he called the alliance’s secretary general Jens Stoltenberg on Wednesday to demand that other NATO members do more on Middle Eastern security. “I think he was actually excited by it,” Trump said. “I’m good at names, right?” Trump said, recounting his pride over the new US-Mexico-Canada free trade agreement, known as USMCA, which replaces the former version dubbed NAFTA. “USMCA, like the song YMCA,” Trump said, referring to the 1978 disco hit by the group Village People. “Nobody could remember USMCA. I said, ‘Think of the song YMCA’ and now everybody says it.” Little other detail has emerged as to how NATO, a 70-year-old group relying largely on American leadership and firepower, might replace the US in Iraq or other Middle Eastern conflict zones. Trump said when that happens, “we can come home, or largely come home, and use NATO. This is an international problem.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Hillary Clinton touted her foreign policy experience during Monday's presidential debate as proof she's fit to be the next commander in chief, but rival Donald Trump argued that the ex-secretary of state left the Middle East in flames. September 27, 2016 In "News" The leaders of the United States, Mexico and Canada on Friday signed a huge regional trade deal to replace the old NAFTA, denounced by President Donald Trump as a killer of US jobs. November 30, 2018 In "News" Republican White House frontrunner Donald Trump promised a top-to-bottom overhaul of US foreign policy Wednesday to put "America first" and make its allies pay up. In a major foreign policy speech short on specifics that left Washington experts scratching their heads, Trump warned that Europe and Asia may have to… April 27, 2016 In "News"