Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria,CIIN has called on industry professionals to deploy more creativity in the sector to further deepen insurance penetration  in 2020. Insurance sector stakeholders raise alarm over disruptive tech President  of the Institute, Mr. Eddie Efekoha stated this in his new year message noting that   year 2020 is a year to put into practice all that have been preached as professionals. He said: ”The year 2020 is an important year for the insurance industry. It is a year in which we are mandated to put into practice all that we have preached as professionals. ”Recapitalization of insurance and reinsurance companies is no longer an idea but a reality and the industry has to embrace it wholly. Its advent calls for insurance professionals to embrace creativity and work harder than ever before for the future of this industry. It will not be an easy ride and all our resources will be stretched thin, however it is my belief that we will all profit from this exercise, ” he stated . ”I would also like to commend the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) for their support for the Institute and College programmes in 2019. I urge all trade bodies of the industry namely: Nigerian Insueres Association, (NIA), Nigerian Council  of Registered Insurance Brokers(NCRIB), Institute of Loss Adjusters of Nigeria (ILAN) and   Association of Registered Insurance Agents of Nigeria(ARIAN)to stay committed to promoting the insurance industry’s agenda. Together we can achieve so much.” ”There are many benefits to be derived from the membership of the Institute including but not limited to access to industry reports and research papers, discounted examination fees, group life benefits ( to the tune of N500,000) and permanent disability benefits (to the tune of N250,000). The Institute remains committed to offering value to its members and I can assure you that more benefits will be unveiled in the nearest future. Reiterating his commitments in advancing insurance education and professionalism, he said that the institute will consistently  provide world class manpower with the highest standard of professional and ethical training for operating effectively and efficiently in the Nigerian and international business environment. The bane of winner takes it all ” The Institute is our pride and represents a beacon of light to the insurance industry. It is my hope that as stakeholders, we will continue to lift the Institute higher by actively participating in  its programmes and activities in 2020, thus making the year more successful than the previous.” Vanguard The Nigerian insurance market is currently ranked 60th in the world. However, the Nigerian government envisions an insurance industry that can rank amongst the twenty largest markets in the world by the year 2020. October 8, 2014 In "Insurance and You" COMMISSIONER for Insurance and Chief Executive Officer of the National Insurance Commission, NAICOM, Mohammed Kari, has called on the leadership of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) to reinvent the professional body and update its curriculum so as to adopt contemporary best practices for the overall benefit of the… July 31, 2017 In "Business" THE out-going President, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, CIIN, Mrs. Funmi Babington-Ashaye, has said that the insurance industry must embrace digitization to remain afloat and relevant in the economy. Babington-Ashaye, who stated this at her valedictory lecture in Lagos, said that the insurance industry as a whole and brokers in… July 23, 2018 In "Business"