The killings of Iranian commander Qasem Soleimani and a top Iraqi paramilitary chief in a US strike on Baghdad Friday threaten to drag Iraq into the abyss of regional conflict, analysts warned. The US strike on Baghdad international airport targeted a convoy carrying Soleimani and his top Baghdad-based adviser Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, the deputy head of Iraq’s powerful Hashed al-Shaabi force. The raid has confirmed the worst fears of many Iraqis: that their homeland will become the main battlefield in a looming conflict between Iran and the United States. “Iran’s strongest cards are in Iraq, and I think that Iraq will pay the price for this,” said Fanar Haddad of Singapore University’s Middle East Institute. Tensions between the United States and Iran have been rising for months, as Washington accused Tehran-backed factions of firing rockets on their troops across Iraq and on their embassy in Baghdad. But they have soared over the past week. On December 27, a rocket attack killed a US contractor working in northern Iraq, prompting retaliatory US strikes that killed 25 fighters from Kataeb Hezbollah, a hardline Hashed faction. Angry Hashed supporters laid siege to the US embassy as Washington announced hundreds of new US troops were en route to the region. But Washington delivered its most decisive blow yet early Friday when a volley of strikes hit near Baghdad international airport, leaving two cars torched on the access highway. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards confirmed Soleimani was killed in the strike while the Hashed announced Muhandis’s death. With the two dead, the Quds Force — the foreign operations arm of Iran’s Guards Corps — has been left decapitated and the Hashed lost its de facto chief, too. Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei vowed: “severe revenge” for the raid and its top security council was meeting to discuss options. Analysts said the outbreak of a wider conflict was looking increasingly likely. “If Iran does need to respond and make a performance out of this, the fear is that there will be something more than just loading rockets at embassies,” said Haddad. “It could set Iraq along the path of internal conflict and that’s something Iran can very easily instigate,” he said. The nature of the strike is unprecedented because of the seniority of those targeted — making its repercussions hard to picture, said Ramzy Mardini, a researcher at the US Institute of Peace. “The problem with judging what happens next is a problem of imagination. Nobody thought this was in the realm of possibility,” he told AFP. “It’s likely that all actors on all sides will be playing things by ear in the short term, which is a recipe for miscalculation,” said Mardini. Friday’s strike had shown that Iran could no longer use its allies in Iraq to carry out attacks against US interests “without risking an American conventional retaliation on Iran,” Mardini told AFP. “Plausible deniability has gone out the window.” The US had expressed increasing frustration with the escalating rocket attacks on its 5,200 troops in Iraq and on its embassy in Baghdad over the past two months. US forces led the 2003 invasion against then-dictator Saddam Hussein and Washington has worked closely with Iraqi officials and commanders since then. But its influence has waned compared with that of Iran, which carefully crafted personal ties with Iraqi politicians and armed factions, even during Saddam’s reign. Soleimani was the prime example, sweeping into Baghdad regularly to hold meeting with top Iraqi officials during times of turmoil. Ranj Alaaldin, a fellow at the Brookings Institution in Doha, said that would leave Iran with a range of questions for its Iraqi partners. “How did the US know of Soleimani’s arrival in Baghdad? Who leaked the intel?” Alaaldin tweeted. “Watch the Iraqi political space. Heads will roll.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Top Iranian commander Qasem Soleimani was killed Friday in a US strike on Baghdad's international airport, prompting Tehran to vow "revenge", dramatically upping the stakes in bitter tensions between Tehran and Washington. The Pentagon said US President Donald Trump ordered Soleimani's "killing", after a pro-Iran mob this week laid siege… January 3, 2020 In "Foreign" Oil prices soared more than four per cent Friday following news that the US had killed a top Iranian general, fanning fresh fears of a conflict in the crude-rich region, with Tehran warning of retaliation. The head of Iran's Quds Force, Qasem Soleimani, was hit in an attack on Baghdad's… January 3, 2020 In "Foreign" Protesters angered by recent deadly United States airstrikes targeting an Iranian-backed Iraqi militia have attacked the US embassy compound in Baghdad. US troops fired tear gas to disperse a crowd that breached the outer wall of the compound, which is in the capital's heavily fortified Green Zone. A guard post… December 31, 2019 In "News"