First Bank of Nigeria Limited has been named 2019 “Best Mobile Banking App” and the “Fastest Growing Retail Bank” winner by Global Business Outlook. The Global Business Outlook award recognises and rewards excellence in business in companies across the world, both in the public and private sectors. The award rewards innovation, creativity and the drive to create value. FirstBank earned the Fastest Growing Retail Bank recognition because of its leading role in promoting financial inclusion in the country, a drive which has resulted in its 44,000 Agent Banking network designed to complement the provision of beskpoke financial services at its over 750 branches nationwide. It also won the Best Mobile Banking App award thanks to its Firstmobile banking app’s capability at performing a wide range of financial transactions in a safe, adaptable, futuristic and efficient manner. The user friendly app is widely renowned for its ease of navigation and state of the art security features to mitigate risk against fraud. In the course of 2019, FirstBank bagged numerous awards across various areas of its business operations. Speaking on the awards, Folake Ani-Mumuney, the Bank’s Group Head, Marketing & Corporate Communications said, ”We appreciate the recognition of these awards by the respective awarding bodies. The awards are dedicated to all our customers across the globe as their continued patronage of our services is appreciated. We remain steadfast and would not rest on our laurels at rendering bespoke financial services tailored to meet the financial needs of our valued customers, irrespective of where they may be.” Vanguard FirstBank has announced its ongoing Visa on mobile (QR) payment promo to reward customers with various discounts for using the QR payment on the FirstMobile App while carrying out transactions with select partner merchants. The promo is billed to end on 28 February 2019. February 25, 2019 In "Business" FIRST Bank of Nigeria Limited has announced increased transaction limits on its FirstMobile Lifestyle app to a maximum daily limit of N150,000 without the use of a token and a total daily transaction limit of N1 million. January 9, 2017 In "Business" First Bank of Nigeria limited has won the “Best Banking Brand, Nigeria 2016” and “Best Banking Performer, Nigeria 2016” in the Global Brands Awards. February 4, 2017 In "Business"