Zedcrest Capital Limited has announced    plans set up two business lines that would become operational this year including an asset management firm. EFCC hands over forfeited property to NDE The Group Chief Executive Officer of Zedcrest Capital Limited Adedayo Amzat, disclosed this at the company’s End of Year Party & Awards Night    saying the company will also    increase its double digit growth of existing businesses. Explaining his vision for the firm, Amzat said Zedcrest Capital has been positioned to be a foremost financial services holding group in Nigeria, adding that the firm is currently executing the first stages of its journey. “We are executing the stage one right now and we are around 50 per cent on that journey. I hope that by this time next year we will be around 80 per cent. Stage two will be to rebirth ourselves as a proprietary investment firm where we will be making strategic investment in every sector of the economy, especially financial services. “We recently received FMGQ Gold Award as the best brokerage services provider in Nigeria. Zedvance, our consumer lending firm is one of the top three provider of non-bank lending services in Nigeria. “As at today, we have more than 100,000 customers. In 2020, we will launch our asset management firm. We have the license and the team is ready to start. We are also starting a business that will enable crossover payments, and everything is in place already. Iwobi reacts after Arsenal appoint Arteta as new club coach “We are playing along all the important vertical of financial services and that is why I said we are in stage one. In the new year, you will see us playing in four different verticals as compared to the two that we already do. Vanguard New-age financial solutions powerhouse, Zedcrest Capital Limited has been named the Best Financial Management Firm in Nigeria by International Business Magazine. The Dubai-based publication made the announcement on its official website on Monday, 12 August 2019. August 17, 2019 In "News" Zedcap Partners Limited (ZPL), the Securities Brokerage arm of Zedcrest Capital Limited has been adjudged the Best Brokerage Service firm in Nigeria at the 2019 FMDQ Gold Award. November 13, 2019 In "Business" A CLOUD of uncertainty hangs over foreign investment inflow into Nigeria in 2020 following the 78 percentage point decline, year-on-year, YoY, in growth rates recorded in the nine months ending September 2019. December 16, 2019 In "Business"