The Nigerian Stock Exchange NSE has gotten the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC’s final clearance to proceed to the final stages that will transform the Exchange to a public entity, otherwise known as demutualisation process. Trading sustains upward trend on NSE, market capitalisation crosses N13trn mark The Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema disclosed on Monday  during the presentation of 2019 stock market recap and 2020 outlook, stressing that the Exchange is committed to demutualisation process in order to comply to the global best practice. He also disclosed that the Exchange facilitated restitution and recoveries of N1.436 billion worth of shares  for investors in 2019. Onyema also stated that the NSE will work closely with the SEC and Economic, Financial Crime Commission, EFCC to fight unethical conduct of market operators that is meant to tarnish market confidence of investors. He said: The NSE has received No objection from SEC just recently. Having met the necessary requirements of the SEC , the Exchange has obtained a letter if No Objection to enable us proceed to the final stages of the demutualisation process. We will pursue the remaining process vigorously as all stakeholders would be involved. We will continue to sensitise  stakeholders and its effects. There will  be a court ordered meeting and many other things as we proceed.” Will these World events define 2020 and beyond? Continuing, he said:” In terms of market surveillance we will work closely with SEC and EFCC to ensure we prosecute erring operators in order to sanitise and increase market confidence.” Details later: Vanguard The Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE has disclosed that the much awaited demutualisation Bill has been accented to and signed into law by the President Muhammadu Buhari as the Council and all other stakeholders now have to decide on the take off. January 16, 2019 In "Business" Stakeholders have disagreed over the continued suspension of public ownership of the Nigeria Stock Exchange. Stock Exchanges are traditionally privately owned by stock brokers and some individuals and the process of making a stock exchange publicly owned is called Demutualisation. January 24, 2010 In "Finance" Former Director-General of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, Professor Ndi Okereke-Onyiuke, yesterday, indicted the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, for collecting unapproved fees from transactions in the secondary segment of the Nigerian capital market. May 9, 2012 In "Headlines"