The Pentagon has revealed that 34 service members had been diagnosed with traumatic brain injury following missile strikes by Iran on a base in Iraq earlier this month. President Donald Trump had initially said no troops had been injured in the January 8 strike on the Ain al-Asad airbase in western Iraq in a retaliation attack for the killing of Iranian general Qasem Soleimani. Last week the U.S. military said 11 American troops had been treated for concussion symptoms after the attack and this week said additional troops had been moved out of Iraq for potential injuries. After the first reports that some soldiers had been hurt, Trump referred to them as ‘headaches’ and said the cases were not as serious as injuries involving the loss of limbs. The military said symptoms were not immediately reported after the strike and in some cases became known days later. Pentagon chief spokesman Jonathan Hoffman said on Friday that 17 of the 34 U.S. troops are still under medical observation. Eight service members who had been previously transported to Germany had been moved to the United States. The service members were transported earlier Friday and would receive treatment at either Walter Reed military hospital or their home bases. Nine service members remain in Germany and are undergoing evaluations and treatment. Pentagon officials have said there had been no effort to minimize or delay information on concussive injuries. But its handling of the injuries following Tehran’s attack has renewed questions over the U.S. military’s policy regarding how it deals with suspected brain injuries. Daily Mail  United States President, Donald Trump on Wednesday announced to Iranians US 'ready to embrace peace'. He noted Iran appeared to be "standing down" after missile strikes on US troop bases in Iraq that resulted in no American or Iraqi deaths. "All of our soldiers are safe and only minimal damage was… January 8, 2020 In "Foreign" The United States treated 11 of its troops for symptoms of concussion after an Iranian missile attack on an Iraqi base where U.S. forces were stationed, the U.S. military said on Thursday, after initially saying no service members were hurt. The attack was retaliation for a U.S. drone strike in… January 17, 2020 In "Foreign" President Donald Trump pulled back from the brink of war with Iran on Wednesday, saying that Tehran appeared to be "standing down" after firing missiles -- without causing casualties -- at US troops based in Iraq. In a televised address to the nation from the White House, Trump emphasized there… January 9, 2020 In "Foreign"