Taiwan’s top military officer was killed in a helicopter crash on Thursday, the defence ministry said, just days before the island goes to polls to elect a new president. The chief of the general staff, Shen Yi-ming, was among eight senior officers — including three major-generals — who died when their Black Hawk helicopter smashed into mountains near Taipei. The 62-year-old general and his entourage were on a routine mission to visit soldiers in northeast Yilan county when the incident happened. Flags at all military units will fly at half-mast for three days as Shen was the highest-ranking military official to die while on official duty, the government said. Lieutenant-general Tsao Ching-ping, one of five survivors, told rescuers in footage broadcast on local TV: “I am okay… two others are injured and only I can walk.” “There is one more person who’s more seriously wounded and two or three people in the cabin … while two more with no signs of life.” President Tsai Ing-wen’s office said that she will cancel all campaign activities for three days after the tragedy. The ruling Democratic Progressive Party will also suspend campaigning for three days. Tsai is seeking a second term against Kaohsiung city mayor Han Kuo-yu of the Kuomintang (KMT) party in the January 11 elections when Taiwan will also elect a new parliament. Han and the KMT also expressed condolences to the victims and announced that they will stop campaigning for two days. “Today is a day that we are deeply saddened because several of our most distinguished generals died while on official duty,” Tsai said at a briefing for the incident. “I’ve asked the defence minister to maintain stable military morale at this time to ensure steady military and defence operations for the safety and stability of our country.” There have been a number of incidents involving Black Hawk helicopters — purchased from the United States — in recent years in Taiwan. In 2018 a chopper belonging to a government rescue agency crashed during a medical mission off outlying Orchid Island, killing six people on board. There were also two crash landings in 2016 and 2018 with no casualties. The UH-60M helicopter carrying 13 people disappeared from radar less than 15 minutes after taking off, said Air Force Commander Hsiung Hou-chi, adding that the ministry had set up a taskforce to investigate the incident. “We are investigating whether (the cause) was environmental or mechanical,” he told reporters. An air force official said some on board were “trapped under fragments of the helicopter” without elaborating. The ministry has dispatched ground troops and rescue helicopters to the crash site in northeastern Taiwan. It later said survivors will be carried off the mountains for treatment rather than being air-lifted due to bad weather. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria.  IT was another dark day in Plateau State, yesterday, as the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) in-charge of Operations, Mr. John Haruna and three others were killed when a police helicopter, which was delivered last December crashed into buildings in Kabong area of Jos, the state capital, minutes after… March 15, 2012 In "Headlines" The crash of a Dornier 228 light Air Force plane at the Ribadu Military Cantonments Kaduna on Saturday is one of the latest tragedies to befall the nation. It occurred 17 days after a helicopter belonging to Bristow Helicopters crashed into the Lagos Lagoon, killing seven of the 12 persons… September 1, 2015 In "Metro" As at the last count, the Boko Haram menace, bombings, coordinated attacks and failed attempts resulting in IEDs exploding, and burning of schools had consumed the lives of over 1, 200 persons. This was before the sad helicopter crash of Wednesday 14th March 2012, in Jos when the BELL helicopter… March 17, 2012 In "Just Human"