Real Madrid have completed the signing of teenage Brazilian prospect Reinier from Flamengo on a six-and-a-half-year deal, the Spanish giants announced on Monday. According to reports in Spain and in Brazil, Madrid will pay the player’s buyout clause, amounting to around 30 million euros ($33.3m), with 80 per cent going to Flamengo and the remainder to his representatives and his family. The attacking midfielder — whose contract will run until June 2026 — celebrated his 18th birthday on Sunday. In a statement, Real said Reinier will team up with Castilla, the club’s second team who play in Spain’s third tier, after competing in South American Olympic qualifying with Brazil’s under-23 team. That tournament is currently taking place in Colombia. Reinier helped Flamengo win last year’s Brazilian league and Copa Libertadores double and has chosen Real Madrid despite reported interest from Barcelona and other leading European clubs.  An unused substitute when Flamengo lost to Liverpool in last month’s Club World Cup final in Qatar, he is just the latest exciting young Brazilian talent to move to the Santiago Bernabeu. Vinicius Junior followed the same path from Flamengo in 2018, while his fellow 19-year-old forward, Rodrygo, arrived from Santos prior to the start of this season. Brazil Under-17s picked up their fourth World Cup title on Sunday, with two late goals steering them to a 2-1 win over Mexico in the final. There were doubts over whether the Seleção would be able to do it, having seen star player Reinier Jesus - a target for Atlético… November 19, 2019 In "Sports" Brazilian footballer Filipe Luis, free of any contract after four straight seasons with Atletico Madrid, has agreed to play for Brazil's Flamengo until 2021, the Rio de Janeiro club said Tuesday. July 23, 2019 In "Sports" Jurgen Klopp's impact on Liverpool during four years in charge has been transformative, but the man in the opposing dugout in Saturday's Club World Cup final has needed just a few short months to make history at Flamengo. Jorge Jesus was only appointed by the Rio de Janeiro giants in… December 20, 2019 In "News"