The Kano state governor Abdullahi Ganduje of the ruling All Progressive Congress, APC,  has called on the opposition to come and join hands with him for the continued development of the state. “We thank Allah for the victory that made it possible for the Supreme Court to reaffirm our victory after Election Petition Tribunal and Court of Appeal judgments. We also thank Kano people for a peaceful conduct of their affairs,” says the governor. The governor, who spoke through his Press Secretary Abba Anwar also commended the Supreme Court judges that partook in the judgment while praising the judiciary for strengthening democracy. “We also commend all the Judges who partook in this exercise of deepening democracy. This shows the commitment of our judiciary in strengthening our democracy. This is highly commendable,” he said. He further called on the opposition to join hands with the government to move the state forward. “I insist that our opposition should come and join us to move the state forward. We have a lot of developmental projects on the ground. And more are coming. Our free and compulsory education policy needs all hands on deck. Our security system also needs all and sundry. Among others,” he said. vanguard Security was on Monday beefed up in and around Kano Government House, after the Supreme Court’s verdict that affirmed Abdullahi Ganduje, as the duly elected governor of the state. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that security was also beefed up in other parts of the city to protect lives… January 20, 2020 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised its supporters in Kano State to remain calm and avoid acts capable of causing trouble in the state. Alhaji Rabi’u Suleiman-Bichi, the state’s PDP Caretaker Committee Chairman, gave the advice while speaking with newsmen in Kano on Monday. READ ALSO: Kano PDP accepts… January 20, 2020 In "Politics" An African Group of Democrats under the aegis of African Democracy Assessment Network (ADAN) based in Dakar, Senegal, has selected Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano state to be honoured with an award of “Best Governor in 100 Days in office’’. September 8, 2019 In "News"