The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said on Thursday he is optimistic the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) pending before the National Assembly would be passed before May. Sylva disclosed this while briefing journalists in Abuja. He said the team working on the PIB was at the final stage of harmonisation of all the existing versions from 2000 to date (2009, 2012, and 2018) with consideration to the concerns raised by industry players. This, he said would help to create an enabling environment for investors as well as the appropriate government takes in the oil and gas value chain. The minister told journalists the PIB would be passed as a single bill but would likely accommodate two regulators for the sector The PIB was unbundled into three parts – Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB), Administration & Host Communities Bill and Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill. He said: “Counting on the current harmony between the Executive and Legislative arms of Government, we are optimistic that both the Petroleum Industry Governance, Administration & Host Communities Bill on one hand and Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill on the other will be passed within the first anniversary of this administration, “In fact, we are hoping that it will be passed before May.” “We are not taking it as a Bill in parts, we are going to take it as a bulk bill. “It would be passed as the PIB.” (NAN)  Vanguard  The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, Thursday, disclosed that the Federal Government is set to discourage the use of Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, also known as petrol, for transportation. January 16, 2020 In "Business" THE Federal Government’s moves to add one million barrels yearly to Nigeria’s oil reserves, targeted at increasing the nation’s total reserves from about 37 billion to 40 billion barrels by 2025, have been threatened mainly because of lack of Petroleum Industry Bill, PIB. January 14, 2020 In "Energy" The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said on Wednesday the review of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) is now at an advanced stage and the bill would be passed by the middle of this year. Sylva stated this in a New Year message released in Lagos. The… January 1, 2020 In "News"