AHEAD of the 2023 Presidency, the South-South Elders have said that there will be a crisis that could tear the country apart if the North should insist on retaining the office of the President after the expiration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure. The South-South Elders also said that it was logical and fair to allow the zone to produce the President for another for years so as to complete its second tenure. Speaking in an interview in Abuja, weekend, the National Coordinator of South-South Elders Forum, His Highness, Anabs Sara Igbe said that the zone was better placed in the South to clinch the Presidency in 2023. He argued that the North may not be comfortable to support South East candidate for now because of the civil war experience where millions of the Igbo were gruesomely murdered, adding that Ndigbo were still bitter over the alleged marginalization of the zone. He also claimed that the North will not support the South West judging from the position of the Miyetti Allah on the recently launched security outfit by the South West. Sara Igbe, who is also the National Publicity Secretary of the Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, said that the South-South will be the stabilizing force in the country and would make the South-East feel at home. He also claimed that the South East is agitating for the Biafra Republic and also only interested in the restructuring of the country and not the 2023 Presidency likewise the South West. Vanguard By Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City Although 2023 when President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to finish his second term is still three years away, agitations on which zone power should shift to have been on but former Chief Whip of the Senate, Sir Roland Owie presented a new perspective to… January 7, 2020 In "Politics" Ohanaeze Ndigbo and Afenifere, the apex socio cultural bodies of the Igbo and the Yoruba were yesterday united in chiding politicians from their ethnic zones advocating a second term for President Muhammadu Buhari as the fastest route for the presidency to come to their zones. The two groups in separate… October 27, 2018 In "News" Following President Muhammadu Buhari’s New Year day promise of quitting politics in 2023, South-West and South-East leaders have condemned what they termed his silence on the pronouncements by some northerners to scuttle power shift arrangement between the South and the North in 2023. January 5, 2020 In "News"