Plateau State Governor and Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum, Simon Lalong says the affirmation of his election victory by the supreme court has finally sealed and confirmed beyond further questioning the overwhelming mandate willingly bestowed on him by the good people of Plateau State. The Governor while reacting to the supreme court judgement said all along he was never in doubt as to the validity of his mandate as he did not only campaign and engaged all stakeholders, but also delivered on his campaign promises during the first tenure which endeared the people to him. He said “I again dedicate this victory to God and the people of Plateau State irrespective of their political, social, religious or ethnic affiliations. The highest court in the land has stamped the mandate I was given and this means that our administration is now clear of litigation distractions. “The time now is for governance and actualisation of our next level agenda encapsulated in our 3 point vision of peace, security and good governance; Infrastructural development and sustainable economic rebirth”. The Governor in a statement by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Makut Macham repeated his call to the opposition to join hands with him in developing the State and pursuing projects and programs that will promote lasting legacies for the people. He asked the people to intensify prayers for the peace and stability of the State which will enable rapid development to take place and also thanked the judiciary for their impartiality and contribution to consolidating democracy in the State and Nigeria as a whole. Vanguard By Marie-Therese Nanlong - Jos Plateau State Governor and Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum, Simon Lalong says the affirmation of his election victory by the supreme court has finally sealed and confirmed beyond further questioning the overwhelming mandate willingly bestowed on him by the good people of Plateau State.… January 20, 2020 In "News" Plateau State Governor and Chairman of the Northern Governors' Forum, Simon Lalong has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari over the validation of his election victory by the Supreme Court of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. October 30, 2019 In "News" Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau has described his victory at the Appeal Court as validation of the will of the people. Lalong in a statement on Friday by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr. Simon Macham said that the affirmation of his victory was yet another collective victory… November 29, 2019 In "News"