MTV Base ‘Behind The Story’ is making a return with some of Nigeria’s biggest music stars set to feature in the second season.   The show, which is hosted by MTV Base VJ, Sammy Walsh, will see leading talents in the entertainment industry take fans down memory lane, discussing topics around how their careers started, what stardom means to them and where they see themselves in the future. ‘Behind The Story’ which first premiered in Nigeria in 2019 with singer Dammy Krane, will return this season with Teni set to feature in the first episode. Subsequent episodes of the show will also feature some of the biggest names in the Nigerian music industry including the legendary 2baba, Zlatan and Sinzu as they sit to share the untold stories behind their biggest career moments as well as take their fans on an exclusive journey back to the places where their careers started. Also, the new season will see Sammy Walsh interview Big Brother Naija winner, Mercy Eke as well as former BBN housemates Tacha and Khafi as they share some untold stories about themselves and how the BBN show has changed their lives. According to Solafunmi Oyeneye, the Senior Channels Manager of ViacomCBS, the new season of Behind The Story is not just better than its debut season, but also thoroughly enlightening and filled with several inside stories. MTV Base Behind The Story season 2 premieres 8pm on Tuesday, January 21, 2020 on MTV Base channel 322 on DStv and channel 72 on Gotv. Vanguard Bet9ja, an indigenous gaming company has once again demonstrated its  believe in the Nigerian entertainment industry and avowed willingness to making life better for the people as the gaming company throws its weight behind *Detty Fest December* party. December 21, 2019 In "News" When 2face bestrode the Nigerian music scene likea colossus in the 90s, one thing was uppermost in his mind - to rule the world with his music. And today, 2face, born Innocent Idibia, has not only conquered with his music, he has set a new record that generations yet to… September 29, 2018 In "Music" The 6th All Africa Music Awards,AFRIMA, which held at the Convention Centre of Eko hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, was nothing short of a spectacle. It was a celebration of African music and talents. December 4, 2019 In "Entertainment"