Erockfor (Rocky) is kicking off her new year with a cryptic message about new music. The genre-blurring Cameroonian singer-songwiter born and raised in Montreal, Canada, who fuses Jazz and Soul with Hip Hop and reggae, debuted with “How Will I Know,” in October 2019. Haaland reveals why he snubbed Man Utd for Dortmund The singer dropped a photo of herself recently on Instagram with the caption “Questions is out 1/30.” She further captioned the image: “I’m focused on the path I have chosen.” Erockfor in a message, reaffirms her revelation for the year. “I will be releasing a single a month all of 2020, with the view of garnering a global audience,” she said. Erockfor’s 2019 debut was a soulful hip-hop groove. She  continues with her style of asking questions that demands answers. In “How Will I Know,” she asked a series of questions: “How will I know if this love is real? She sings, “Does he love me? / Does he care”. We have made gaint strides in science and technology — Onu She hasn’t spoken about any plans for a full-length album or an EP since she debuted. He upcoming release is due January 30. Vanguard The Rock and  Roll Hall of Fame has announced late American international music legends, Whitney Houston and Notorious B.I.G  among its inductees for the 35th annual Hall of Fame ceremony, years after their death. October 16, 2019 In "News" Capital Hill Music female rapper, Akindele Justina Omowunmi, aka Mz Kiss, has come out hard on fellow artiste, Yung6ix, for saying hip-hop music is gradually phasing out in Nigeria. The Warri-born and bred Yungsix singer, asserted in a social media rant why he is still doing hip-hop despite his belief… March 4, 2017 In "Entertainment" The Rock and  Roll Hall of Fame has announced late American international music legends, Whitney Houston and Notorious B.I.G  among its inductees for the 35th annual Hall of Fame ceremony, years after their death. According to US Today, the Rock Hall announced Houston and the legendary rapper B.I.G among nine… October 16, 2019 In "Entertainment"