BBNaija Alex, while celebrating the new year, revealed that she indeed thought of taking her life at different times in the past year. Omisore offsets N2.3m bills of 17 patients at OAUTH “At some point, I had a lot going on, I got suicidal, the bad part about it was that I told no one. I only ran away. Thanks to God, I realized that wasn’t and will never be an option,” she shares, before going ahead to encourage her fans to always seek help and never consider self-harm as an option. The multi-talented entertainment personality also revealed how she became broke; despite the success, she has enjoyed since leaving the BBNaija house in 2018. She describes the situation as one of the most challenging times of the past year. She shares with her fans, “At another point, something terrible happened and I was down to 16 thousand naira only. I thought my life was over but guess what, I survived, I never thought less of myself or took a wrong route to come out if it. I never accepted less, and I moved forward.” The Enugu State native further shared her struggle with finding love, and how she eventually found the strength and courage to pull through the very trying year. “I found love 3 times and lost it 3 times then I locked it up and threw the key away,” she says, adding “My vow to protect my happiness was one of my best decisions and it saved me.” No casualty recorded in Enugu market inferno – Police Like Alex’s no-holds-barred confessions, the ‘Confessions’ show on Africa Magic will involve genuine revelations that will in turn trigger real-time reactions from all parties involved, as they are unaware that the situation is being filmed. The 30-minute show will air at 06:00 pm (WAT) on Mondays, beginning January 6, 2020. Vanguard I didn’t do anything differently. All the housemates came into the house with a winning mentality. I was just myself while some came with strategies. April 15, 2017 In "Entertainment" Mercy Eke, known widely as ‘Mercy Lambo, Queen of Highlights’ has made history as the first woman to be crowned the winner of the Big Brother Naija in its 4th  edition. This couldn’t have been possible without the Imo State-born Housemate storming the House with some sort of a plan. October 12, 2019 In "Entertainment" Ifu Ennada is one BBNaija Season 3 'Double Wahala' ex-housemate who has continued to evolve. Born Iheme Faith Uloma, multi-talented, beautiful and witty Ifu recently launched her hair care line. In this interview, she shares her plans, struggles, hopes, relationship and more with Juliet Ebirim. Read on... August 25, 2018 In "Entertainment"