Rep. Dennis Idahosa (APC-Edo) says by successfully ending the perennial fuel scarcity during yuletide, Nigerians should trust President Muhammadu Buhari administration to address other challenges confronting the country. Perspective on the Senate and NLNG dividend Idahosa, who is the Chairman House Commitee on Legislative Compliance, made the appeal in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Benin. The representative of the Ovia Federal Constituency called for more support for the president to enable his administration successfully execute its programmes and policies expected to take the country to the ‘next level’ Idahosa said no government can record any progress without support from the people. He noted that because Nigerians were desirous of putting an end to the perennial fuel scarcity, their support made it possible for the president to find a permanent solution to the problem. “This support is needed to surmount the challenges of insecurity, economic issues, fight against corruption and many other problems bedeviling the country. “We must all realise that the President is also human like us, he is not a magician that can solve the problem of this country alone without our support. We all have a role to play. “For instance, we should know what is due from us as tax, report anything that tends to undermine security in your area to the appropriate authority, don’t engage in any activity that will sabotage the economy of the country, protect public properties and above all, obey the law of the land. “These are just some of the ways we can be supportive to any government, from Federal down to the local government level,” he urged. Idahosa assured that the National Assembly (NASS) would continue to be supportive to the executive to continue with it’s people oriented programmes. “Just like the Speaker said sometime ago, we were never elected to fight the executive, but to assist in every way possible to achieve the lofty dream of taking Nigeria to the next level. “We may have cause to defer with the executive on some issues, but it will be resolved without necessarily heating up the polity or make Nigerians suffer unjustly. Hundreds of Malians protest foreign troop presence “In conclusion, we must learn how not to play politics with every policy statement made by the government. Let us always argue issues based on its merit and demerit,” he said. Vanguard The Congress has been helping us to ensure that the money taken out of the country is returned despite the efforts by some Nigerians to sabotage the move January 7, 2018 In "Interview" Hon.Charles Idahosa, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress was the Political Adviser to the immediate past governor of Edo state, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole for eight years. In this interview,Idahosa revealed how Oshiomhole turned the table against Chief Tom Ikimi who was already on his way to becoming the APC… May 5, 2018 In "Interviews" Chief Francis Inegbeniki, is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Edo State and former senatorial candidate of the party in Edo central district. In this interview with Vanguard, Inegbeniki speaks on why President Muhammadu Buhari is enjoying the support of Nigerians and other national issues. May 5, 2016 In "News"