Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari says it will complete 47 ongoing road projects, including those leading to the nation ports, and major bridges including substantial work on the Second Niger Bridge in 2020. President Muhammadu Buhari disclosed this in a letter to Nigerians to commemorate the New Year, which was made available to newsmen on Wednesday in Abuja. He also revealed that 13 housing estates under the National Housing Project Plan would be completed this year. According to him, Lagos, Kano, Maiduguri and Enugu international airports will also be inaugurated in 2020. The president said an agricultural rural mechanisation scheme that would cover 700 local governments over a period of three years would also be inaugurated this year. Buhari revealed that his administration would be “launching the Livestock Development Project Grazing Model in Gombe State where 200,000 hectares of land has been identified; “Training of 50,000 workers to complement the country’s 7,000 extension workers; “Commissioning of the Lagos–Ibadan and Itakpe–Warri rail lines in the first quarter; “Commencement of the Ibadan–Abuja and Kano–Kaduna rail lines also in the first quarter,’’ the letter read in part. He stated that the administration would also embark on further liberalisation of the power sector to allow businesses to generate and sell power, while the construction of the Mambilla Power project would commence by the first half of 2020. According to the president, the construction of the AKK gas pipeline, OB3 gas pipeline and the expansion of the Escravos – Lagos pipeline would commence in the first quarter of 2020. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Wednesday, April 24, 2019 will go down in history as a special day for Lagos State and indeed Nigeria. Reason: It was a day President Muhammadu Buhari inaugurated five landmark legacy projects of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s administration in critical sectors including health, transportation, road and social infrastructure. April 26, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari says his administration will create new opportunities in agriculture, manufacturing and other long neglected sectors to address the challenges of poverty among Nigerians in 2020. The president stated this in a letter addressed to Nigerians, released by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina,… January 1, 2020 In "Agric" President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed optimism that Nigeria is destined to achieve greatness in spite of the current challenges. November 5, 2016 In "News"