U.S. President Donald Trump has called Qassem Soleimani a “son of a bitch” in his latest round of fierce criticism of the Iranian general he had assassinated earlier this month. Trump told a rally in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on Tuesday that there were many “young men and women walking around without arms and without legs” because of Soleimani. “Great percentages of people don’t have legs right now and arms because of this son of a bitch,” Trump said, adding that “he should have been killed 20 years ago.” Trump was this week forced to defend the targeted killing of Soleimani after critics questioned the “imminent” nature of the threat the president said justified the move. Washington credits the general with orchestrating the killing of hundreds of U.S. soldiers in Iraq. Trump’s administration has also been criticized over conflicting statements on the rationale behind the killing. Defence Secretary Mark Esper on Sunday said he never saw evidence that Iran was planning an attack on four U.S. embassies, as Trump had claimed two days earlier. Republicans have used the strike on Soleimani to defend Trump as taking action against enemies while Democrats try to remove him from office as impeachment proceedings move forward. Iran retaliated against the Soleimani attack by firing ballistic missiles at an Iraqi base housing U.S. forces. No one was harmed in the strike and Trump has since ordered additional sanctions on Iran, instead of striking back, in what has been taken as a de-escalation of tensions. (dpa/NAN) VANGUARD US President Donald Trump on Friday said the United States killed top Iranian military commander Qasem Soleimani to stop a war. Addressing newsmen in Florida, Trump alleged that Soleimani was “plotting imminent and sinister attacks on American diplomats and military personnel, but we caught him in the act and terminated… January 4, 2020 In "Foreign" The year 2019 ended for many in a most bizarre way. Many were aghast by what the year had to offer but the most important thing was surmounting the difficulties and challenges that accompanied the year and being thankful at the end of it. January 5, 2020 In "Heart of the matter with Chioma" United States President, Donald Trump has warned Tehran that the U.S. will target 52 Iranian sites if Iran attacks Americans in the wake of the killing of a top Iranian general. “Let this serve as a WARNING that if Iran strikes any Americans, or American assets, we have targeted 52… January 6, 2020 In "Foreign"