The Federal Government has promised that with adequate funding that projects in the oil communities of Imo state, will be completed on time. Vanguard gathered in Owerri, after the visit of the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, Mr Olusade Adesola, it was discovered that with better funding projects will continue as expected. According to Adesola, he was in the state to ascertain the state of the projects in the oil areas. He said among other things “The ministry oversight developmental activities in the Niger Delta region. Imo state is one of them by virtue of exploration of oil activities in the state. So the state is an eligible member of the oil state in the Niger Delta areas. “The ministry has been implementing various of programmes in the state, early in the year, like this it is good for us to see what we have been able to accomplish to see the gap or deficiency so that we can work on how to address the problems. “We saw the Owerri Elele road, Owerri-Egbema road, we visited the skill acquisition programme and a road both in Ohaji/Egbema, the qualities are very impressive but with funding challenges. “Some of these projects have been ongoing and the Minister, Godswill Akpabio is committed to the completion of these projects. The minister is also on inspection in other states.” When he was asked his rate based on the findings in Imo, he said: “The findings show that so far so good is quite commending because you work to the extent of funds available. Contractors have done quite a lot. “Of course, with better funding a lot can be achieved. The projects are capital intensive. Therefore, in the face of the declining budget of the Federal government but with prioritization we will achieve a lot.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Farmers in Umuehihe Village in Okwu Ikeduru Local Government Area of Imo have commended the Federal Government for establishing a palm oil processing factory in their village. April 13, 2018 In "News" The Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osibanjo, has directed contractors who abandoned projects in oil bearing communities of Imo State to return to site with immediate effect February 14, 2017 In "News" Lack of funding and neglect on the side of the government have been identified as some of the reasons forestalling the actualisation of the Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs in the oil communities of the South-East zone as well as that of the South-South. December 19, 2018 In "News"