Japanese authorities on Thursday issued arrest warrants for a former U.S. Special Forces soldier and two other men on suspicion of smuggling former Nissan Motor Co boss Carlos Ghosn out of Japan. “Warrants were issued for former U.S. Green Beret Michael Taylor and two other men, George-Antoine Zayek and Peter Taylor. “A warrant was also issued for Ghosn for illegally leaving the country,’’ prosecutors said in a statement. Ghosn fled to Lebanon, his childhood home, at the end of 2019, while he was awaiting trial on charges of under-reporting earnings, breach of trust and misappropriation of company funds, all of which he denied. The arrest warrants came days after prosecutors searched the Tokyo office of Ghosn’s former lawyer. Reuters reported recently that Lebanon and Japan have about 40 days to decide whether Ghosn will be extradited to Japan or stand trial in Lebanon. Meanwhile, the two countries have no extradition treaty and Lebanon does not typically hand over its nationals. Report says Ghosn’s legal team is hoping to hold the trial in Lebanon, where the former auto executive has deep ties and hopes to clear his name. Ghosn has struck out at what he called Japan’s unjust judicial system and said the alternative to fleeing would have been to spend the rest of his life languishing in Tokyo without a fair trial NAN Vanguard News Tokyo prosecutors on Tuesday issued an arrest warrant for Carlos Ghosn’s wife Carole for allegedly lying in testimony, as officials sought ways to bring the fugitive car industry boss back for trial on financial misconduct charges. The perjury arrest warrant accuses Carole Ghosn of falsely claiming not to know,… January 7, 2020 In "News" Lebanon received an Interpol arrest warrant on Thursday for fugitive former Nissan boss Carlos Ghosn, while Turkey launched an investigation into his daring escape from Japan. Ghosn has become an international fugitive after he revealed on Tuesday he had fled to Lebanon to escape what he called a “rigged” justice… January 2, 2020 In "Foreign" Lebanon banned former auto tycoon Carlos Ghosn from travel Thursday and asked Japan to hand over his file on financial misconduct charges, as Tokyo urged the fugitive businessman to return. The 65-year-old businessman -- for years venerated in Japan for turning around once-ailing Nissan -- fled while awaiting trial on… January 10, 2020 In "Foreign"