African Development Bank President Akinwumi Adesina, Tuesday, has urged the United Kingdom to engage Africa in a “partnership of change as the continent is on the cusp of unmatched economic transformation. Adesina gave the charge in a keynote address at a UK Parliamentary Symposium. “The Africa of the 21st century is very different. The Africa of the 21st century is new and more confident,” he said. The Symposium was co-organized by the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Africa with the Royal African Society, Oxford Brookes University, and the Trade Justice Network under the theme UK-Africa Trade and Brexit. The Bank’s chief argued that Africa and the UK should be significant trading partners. “The reality, however, is that UK’s trade with Africa is trending downwards. From a $49 billion peak in 2012, trade decreased to $30.6 billion in 2018,” he noted. The decline in UK trade and investment in Africa is against a backdrop of projected business-to-business and consumer-to-consumer expenditures of $5.6 trillion by 2020, and a food and agriculture market worth $1 trillion by 2030. “The fact that we are having this conversation in the UK Parliament is a great start. The convening of this Summit by Prime Minister Boris Johnson is an even greater start,” he acknowledged. President Adesina used his engagement at the House of Commons to share Africa’s investment opportunities, “which speak for themselves.” Trading under the African Continental Free Trade Agreement, which represents a market of more than 1.3 billion people and a gross domestic product of $2.5 trillion, and is the world’s largest free trade area since establishment of the World Trade Organization, starts in July. Speaking earlier in the morning at the UK-Africa Investment Summit Sustainable Infrastructure Forum, the Bank’s chief said: “Investing in quality and sustainable infrastructure can spur Africa’s economic transformation.” Vanguard The President of the African Development Bank, (AfDB) Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, has won the 2017 World Food Prize Laureate. June 26, 2017 In "News" Dr Akinwumi Adesina, the President of African Development Bank (AfDB), says the bank and World Bank have set aside 800 million dollars for the provision of agriculture technologies to farmers in Africa. September 6, 2017 In "News" British Prime Minister Boris Johnson , Monday, made a case for bigger investments in Africa and called for increased and renewed partnership between the UK and Africa January 20, 2020 In "News"