Telecommunications services provider, MTN, during the last December, sponsored series of theatre productions to promote the rich Nigerian cultural heritage. Runsewe explains why some people want him in jail As part of its corporate social responsibility, CSR, the network’s foundation had the Arts and Culture effort focused on three things. The three of them include: promoting the re-telling of Nigerian and African stories, promoting family and national values and empowering skilled professionals within the country’s Arts and Culture ecosystem to showcase their talent before a wider audience. According to MTN, the December productions line up began on the 15th with Fela’s Republic and the Kalakuta Queens, a musical drama that centers on the life and story of legendary Fela Kuti. The theatre production which held at Terra Kulture showed till January 5. The Five Maids of Fadaka held at the Kona Recreation Hub, Lekki, on the 21st, 22nd, 28th and 29th. Emotan which showed on December 22nd to 25th retold the story of a well-respected food trader during the reigns of Oba Uwaifiokun and Prince Ogun, the future Oba Ewuare the Great in the 16th Century, who assisted Oba Ewuare in reclaiming the throne after several years in exile. The network said the foundation has continued to fulfil its pledge to revive the Arts and Culture scene in Nigeria. It said: “In 2018, the CSR arm of MTN Nigeria sponsored over six theatre productions. Taking it up a notch, the foundation sponsored 10 theatre productions in 2019. Profit taking drags down equity performance by 1.2% “Earlier in 2019, the foundation supported Sound Sultan’s broadway styled Jungle Story 2, Agbarho the stage play, the Nigerian Universities Theatre Arts Festival, NUTAF, Lagos International Poetry Festival, LIPFEST, and Life in My City Arts Festival, LIMCAF. Vanguard The Musical “Fela and The Kalakuta Queens” is a demonstration of the rich cultural heritage that Nigeria is blessed with. The play, which tells the story of legendary musical icon and activist, Fela Anikulapo Kuti, reveals the sensational life of the Queens of Kalakuta and unmasks common misconceptions about them. October 20, 2018 In "Entertainment" 2019 wasn’t exactly an easy ride, many wanted to take a break.  Luckily, many entertainment shows and events filled the month. The theatre productions in the month were compelling. One would think there was a cultural festival in Lagos, thanks to MTN Foundation. January 11, 2020 In "Entertainment" With over 150 ethnic groups and 500 languages, arts and culture has always played a crucial role in defining our nation and uniting our people. October 22, 2018 In "News"