U.S. President Donald Trump, Defense Secretary Mark Esper, and others throughout the U.S. government for a week had said that Iran’s attack on bases in Iraq, in retaliation for the killing of an Iranian general, had not killed or injured any U.S. servicemembers. That is no longer true, the Pentagon now acknowledges. But U.S. military leadership in Washington only became aware on Thursday that 11 U.S. service members were flown out of Iraq due to concussive symptoms, Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Hoffman said. “This idea that there was an effort to de-emphasize injuries for some sort of amorphous political agenda doesn’t hold water,” Hoffman said. But the disclosure of the concussive symptoms late on Thursday, more than a week after the attack itself, is likely at a minimum to open a debate about the Pentagon’s longstanding treatment of brain injury as a different class of wounds that it says do not require immediate reporting up the chain of command. U.S. military has to immediately report incidents threatening life, limb or eyesight. But suspected brain injury, which can take time to manifest and diagnose, does not have that urgent requirement. Esper was only informed on Thursday that the service members were flown out of Iraq to receive additional screening and treatment in bases in Kuwait and Germany, the Pentagon said. The first U.S. service member was flown out of Iraq on Jan. 10 for further evaluation, while others were flown out on Jan. 15. “They were under their own power, on aircraft and on their way,” Hoffman said. He noted that top Pentagon officials have not sought to minimize Iran’s attack and instead repeatedly said Iran tried to kill U.S. troops when it fired 16 short-range ballistic missiles at two Iraqi bases from at least three locations inside Iran. In his first Friday prayers sermon in eight years, Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, told worshippers chanting “Death to America” that the elite Guards could take their fight beyond Iran’s borders after the U.S. killing of a top Iranian commander. Source: Reuters Vanguard News United States President Donald Trump on Friday approved sending American troops to bolster Saudi Arabia’s air defences after the largest-ever attack on the kingdom’s oil facilities, which Washington has squarely blamed on Iran. The Pentagon said the deployment would involve a moderate number of troops - not numbering thousands -… September 21, 2019 In "Foreign" U.S. Defense Secretary Mark Esper fired the Navy’s top civilian on Sunday over his handling of the case of a Navy SEAL who was convicted of battlefield misconduct in Iraq and later won the support of President Donald Trump. Esper also determined that the sailor in question, Special Operations Chief… November 25, 2019 In "Foreign" The United States has no plans to withdraw its troops from Iraq, the White House and Pentagon insisted Tuesday, as Iraq premier Adel Abdel Mahdi said he had received a US letter signalling a pullout. President Donald Trump said withdrawing the more than 5,000 US troops in Iraq would be… January 8, 2020 In "Foreign"