Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Thursday carried out a minor cabinet reshuffle with the appointment of three new members into the state executive council. A statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Gboyega Akosile, said eight ministries were affected in the redeployment exercise. The affected ministries include Local Government, Special Duties, Wealth Creation and Employment, Tourism, Arts and Culture, Home Affairs as well as Waterfront Infrastructure. Others were the Central Business District and Urban Development. According to Akosile, three commissioners around, while two Special Advisers have been assigned new roles as commissioners. He said the affected commissioners and their new portfolios are: Commissioner for Special Duties, Dr Wale Ahmed, who has now been moved to Local Government and Community Affairs; Mrs Yetunde Arobieke, formerly Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs has been moved to the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment. Also, Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf has been moved from the Ministry of Home Affairs to the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture as Commissioner. Two former Special Advisers, Prince Anofiu Elegushi and Arch. Kabiru Ahmed have been assigned to the Ministries of Home Affairs and Waterfront Infrastructure as Commissioners respectively. The Governor, according to Akosile, also announced portfolios of the new cabinet members, they are: Mr Tayo Bamgbose-Martins, Commissioner-designate (Special Duties), Mr Oyerinde Olugbenga Olanrewaju, Special Adviser-designate (Central Business District) and Mr Ayuba Ganiu Adele, Special Adviser-designate (Urban Development),” the statement added. Vanguard News Nigeria. Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Thursday carried out a minor cabinet reshuffle with the appointment of three new members into the state executive council. A statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, said eight ministries were affected in the redeployment exercise. These,… January 16, 2020 In "News" WITH an estimated population of 23 million people, Lagos has been in slumber in recent times considering the decaying infrastructure and slow pace of developments. August 30, 2019 In "News" In fulfilling his electioneering promise that his cabinet would be constituted within 100 days of his government, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, recently released the first batch of 25 nominees to occupy cabinet-ranked positions in the state. The list shows an administration that is ready to serve, given the pedigrees… August 18, 2019 In "Viewpoint"