MINISTER of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige has disclosed that the N-POWER programme has not been jettisoned by the federal government as being speculated. Ngige while dismissing  rumors making the rounds that the Federal Government has abandoned the programme, said that what was going was on was repackaging the programme, nothing that in the process amendments in the programme could occur in some areas. Ngige gave the clarification in Enugu when he visited N-POWER trainees at Anamco And Tetralog Mechatronics companies, during the weekend. He expressed satisfaction with the trainees and advised them to form Cooperatives to enable them access loans. Ngige stressed that the N-Power Programme was one of the Social Investment programmes of the Federal Government that cannot be abandoned midway. According to him, with Cooperatives, the N-POWER graduating Trainees can access loans from Federal Government agencies such as the National Directorate of Employment, Industral Training Fund and Bank of Industry. He further disclosed that NDE and ITF also have empowerment programmes for graduates like starter packs, which he said could enable them use their hands to employ themselves and even become employers of labour. Chief Executive Officer of Tetralog Mechatronics Company,  Engr Onuorah Nnabugo, said though some of  the N-POWER trainees may claim that they have acquired enough training to start on their own, there was need for them to acquire more training to make them better. “Training is constant thing and everybody needs training and you will continue to be trained,” he stated. Ngige also visited the ongoing rehabilitation of Akanu Ibiam International airport runway, where he expressed satisfaction on the job. Vanguard lagos—Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige has said the Federal Government will not compromise its resolve to enforce existing law banning of importation of certain goods that Nigeria  has a comparative advantage to produce. November 12, 2018 In "News" The Federal Government has promised to enrol members of the Newspaper Vendors Association of Nigeria into the N-Power programme, to enable them to acquire some skills. Labour and employment minister, Chris Ngige, made the promise on Friday in Abuja when members of the Federal Secretariat branch of the association, led… August 23, 2019 In "News" THE Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige has expressed optimism that President Muhammadu Buhari’s second tenure would end youth unemployment in the country, explaining that the federal government has put in place a programme that would achieve the objective. December 27, 2018 In "News"