Presidency on Wednesday condemned the call by Sen. Enyinnaya Abaribe, at the floor of the Senate, on President Muhammadu Buhari to resign due to alleged inability of the Federal Government to address security challenges in the country. Recall  that Abaribe’s call caused a stir on the floor of the senate. However, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in a statement, question the rationale behind Abaribe’s call, saying: “President Buhari to resign on what basis? “Just because some characters think that President Buhari should resign, then they expect him to quit.  That call does not represent the opinion of the country. This is the opinion of an arm chair critic, known for making stray comments. “If a leader like President Buhari needs to resign, there are millions of other Nigerians who need to resign, including Senator Abaribe who unlocked the door to enable the escape of traitorous and treasonable suspects. “He signed the bond for the court to release Nnamdi Kanu on bail, from which moment the suspect disappeared into the thin air. Senator Abaribe has failed repeated deadlines to return Kanu to the court for trial, yet he has the effrontery with which to accuse someone of failing to the bidding of the law. “This is a man who should have replaced the suspects he failed to produce in the correctional facility. “Abaribe’s party raped the nation and left it collapsing in 2015 and President Buhari is fixing things up all the years he is in office. “President Buhari is working hard to keep Nigeria and Nigerians out of the harm terrorists have unleashed in the entire Sahel and Sub-Saharan Africa with the support of Nigerians and our foreign friends, he is going to finish off these terrorists.  He alone can do it.’’ THE Presidency yesterday described the call by the Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe for President Muhammadu Buhari to resign over the alleged security failure in the country as foolish. January 29, 2020 In "Politics" DISTURBED by the level of Insecurity in the Country, with massive kilkings and wanton destruction of properties, the Senate Minority Leader on Wednesday asked the President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress, APC led government to as a matter of urgency resign honorably. January 29, 2020 In "Politics" FOR Six hours Wednesday, Security challenges in the country formed the discourse by the Senators at the hallowed chamber, with a verdict that for the very fact that the Security Infrastructure has failed in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari, to as a matter of urgency declare a National Security Emergency. January 29, 2020 In "News"