President Muhammadu Buhari has traditionally and expectedly delivered his New Year goodwill message to Nigerians and filled with expectations of things to come, rail, power, airports are some of the “47 projects expected to be completed by the Federal Government in 2020/2021.” President Buhari, in his message, encouraged Nigerians “to be tolerant, law-abiding and peace-loving. This is a new year and the beginning of a new decade – the Nigerian Decade of prosperity and promise for Nigeria and for Africa.”: The number one man in Nigeria who has also hinted on his “retirement” from politics in 2023, also affirmed that his administration’s “policies are working and the results will continue to show themselves more clearly by the day. Nigeria is the most tremendous, can-do market, offering extraordinary opportunities and returns. Investors can look forward with confidence not only to an increasing momentum of change but also to specific incentives, including our new visa-on-arrival policy.” Buhari, however, highlighted some of the projects expected to be completed and commissioned in 2020/2021. Numbering about 47, the president identified some of the projects to include: Read the full text of President Buhari’s speech here  Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari says it will complete 47 ongoing road projects, including those leading to the nation ports, and major bridges including substantial work on the Second Niger Bridge in 2020. President Muhammadu Buhari disclosed this in a letter to Nigerians to commemorate the New Year, which was made… January 1, 2020 In "Politics" The Russian Government has agreed to support the development of Nigeria’s rail infrastructure by constructing 1,400 kilometres track from Lagos to the South-South city of Calabar. October 24, 2019 In "News" The Russian Government has agreed to support the development of Nigeria’s rail infrastructure by constructing 1,400 kilometres track from Lagos to the South-South city of Calabar. According to Malam Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, in a statement in Abuja, said this development… October 24, 2019 In "News"