Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, on Monday set up a seven-man exploration committee on the establishment of Abia State University of Science and Technology. The committee is headed by Prof. Anya O. Anya. Other members of the panel are – Isaac Nnadi, Uwaoma Olewengwa, Benjamin Ozurumba, Ikechi Mgbeoji, John Ogunji, and Nduka Ekere. Inaugurating the committee, Ikpeazu pledged the commitment of the state government to boost human capital development to enhance productivity and economic growth in the state. The governor said the government was desirous to establish a university of science and technology to tackle unemployment, promote the manufacturing of spare parts, and implementation of innovative developmental ideas in Abia. Ikpeazu urged the members of the committee to leverage on comparative advantages available in the state in completing the assignment the government had given them. He also urged the committee to be compelled by a high sense of patriotism to complete the project within the shortest possible time, adding that it would become the forefront that would drive new vistas of development. The governor said the terms of reference of the committee included “exploring the viability of the university in Aba, generate options of funding and leveraging the Small and Medium Enterprises (SME)/commercial activities in Aba. “Take note of the rich human capital available in Aba and explore the possibility of collaboration with development partner,” Governor Ikpeazu added. (NAN)  Vanguard By Ugochukwu Alaribe - Unuahia Abia State government is set to inaugurate a committee to explore the possibility of establishing a University of Science and Technology in Aba. Commissioner for Information, Chief John Okiyi Kalu, who disclosed this in Umuahia, gave the members of the committee as Prof Anya O… December 30, 2019 In "News" Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia has revealed the state government’s plan to build a University of Industry, Science and Technology to boost small and medium enterprises in the state. Ikpeazu announced this in Umuahia on Wednesday while inaugurating the steering committee for the project, Local Government Service Commission and Abia… February 22, 2017 In "News" DR. Okezie Ikpeazu mounted the saddle of leadership in Abia State on May 29, 2015, on a promising note amid huge expectations. January 1, 2018 In "News"