The Executive Secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) Prof. Elias Sulaiman Gungoro has disclosed that the Federal Government released N5 billion last year to his agency to fund research. He however, expressed hope that the grant will be increased to further enable it intensify on funding research. Gungoro spoke on Tuesday at the signing ceremony of Memorandum of Understanding between the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology and the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) in Abuja. He also expressed hope that the MoU will help deepen participation of Nigerian researchers and achieve greater results. In his remarks, the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu who expressed satisfaction with the MoU said that increased funding for researchers in the agencies will discourage Nigerians from patronizing imported herbs as Nigerians have more than enough herbal resources that are lying fallow. The Minister said the collaboration was part of efforts to deepen a knowledge and innovation- driven economy, adding that research agencies will greatly benefit from the development, adding that the MoU will boost research and development and as well promote national development. He expressed optimism that the newly signed MOU will cement synergy between research agencies and academic institutions to the overall benefit of Nigeria. With this development, he explained that research institutes will now avail their research equipments and findings to the universities so as to enhance academic excellence and outputs. He also said that Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) is the nerve center for developed nations and for Nigeria to achieve development, STEM subjects must be embraced by students and researchers. Vanguard ABUJA--SIXTEEN additional institutions in the country were enlisted by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund, TETFund,to benefit its foreign scholarship programme in 2018 January 10, 2019 In "Education" The Executive Secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund ,TETFUND, Professor Sulaiman Bogoro in this interview explains why TETFUND must be supported to addresses the fundamental challenges affecting the education sector and why private universities cant benefit from the Fund. Excerpts January 8, 2015 In "Education" President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) to continue to offer meaningful and purposeful interventions in Nigeria’s higher education institutions to realise government’s desire to create knowledge based economy. February 14, 2018 In "Education"