D’Banj, DJ Spinall, Praiz, Olisa and other celebs decided to shut down Lagos at an exclusive party hosted by MTN for the data-bundled music service MusicTime! Ah! Okay, you thought you’re the only one that can parte after parte abi. Stay there! Nigerian DJs lack branding, equipment expensive ― DJ Xzee The party was on fleek, gbedu non-stop, the who’s who in the music industry were there. As a host on top of its game, MusicTime! a digital music streaming service, was dropping the hottest jams back to back. Our celebrities could not stay sitting down, from Zanku to Azonto to Shaku Shaku to the evergreen Shoki; they were definitely sweating it and it was mad fun! During the Hangout, industry stakeholders, including Praise ‘Praiz’ Adejo, Oye Akideinde, Donald ‘Djinee’ Osayamwen, and Funso Finnih were engaged in a panel session to discuss the future of music in the advent of digitalization, while taking cognizance of current milestones Nigerian artistes have attained. Rumour has it that the trending catchphrase from the “Detty December” phase is “Party Time, Music Time!”. Apparently, the digital streaming service allows users to enjoy local and international music the way they want it how they want it and when they want it. If MusicTime! does not give it to you, how will you take it? Keystone Bank introduces ‘Zero Data’ Mobile Banking feature In 2018, MTN acquired Simfy Africa, which developed MusicTime! for users to enjoy the best listening experience on the platform. Enhanced with a music catalogue from local and international artists, MusicTime allows users to stream music instantly with data. Vanguard It was a night of music and dance, as industry greats, media, music lovers and fans joined popular rapper, Skales for the exclusive listening party of his third studio album titled, ‘Mr. Love.’ July 20, 2018 In "Entertainment" For entertainment aficionados in the South-East, Sunday 19th November, 2017 was a fresh experience for them as they stormed the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu for an evening of breath-taking performances by their very own Phyno, Flavour, Runtown, and Zoro who literally made the entertainment utopia a reality for them during… November 30, 2017 In "Music" The crème de la crème of Nigerian entertainment industry, at the weekend thronged Tilt House, Lekki for the Pepsi Trace Urban party, to have fun and be in the mood for Christmas. The event was refreshed by Pepsi. December 21, 2014 In "The Arts"