The Managing Director of Xiaomi Corporation, Shefiu Gabba said that the market share of smart phones is growing in Nigeria. GAS: Nigeria risks sliding export, market share, NLNG warns He noted that Nigerians adoption of smart phones has  risen in the last nine months since April this year when the company started operations in the country. Gabba disclosed this over the weekend at the launch of two new series of Xiaomi phones called Mi note 10 and Mi note 10 Pro in Lagos. He said: “The market share of smart phone in Nigeria   is really growing because before it used to be feature phones and now it is all about smart phones. You cannot point a certain amount for that but I can say if the market share used to be about 30 to 40 percent,   now it is about 60 percent because it is growing very fast.” Speaking at the event, Marketing Director Xiaomi Nigeria, Shomoye Habeeb said: “In terms of penetration, smart phone has always been on the high side and it is shifting from feature phones to more of smart phones. I am very sure that a baby of five years old will want to use a smart phone because we are now in a digital world. There has been a very big shift from feature phones to smart phones in 2019.” On the launch of the new model phones, Gabba said: “We are launching a device called the Mi note 10 and Mi note 10 Pro and this is a remarkable device because it is the first ever in the global market. Having a device   with over 100 mega pixels, I believe it is a great opportunity for me and for us the Xiaomi team to present this device in the market. These devices have a very big battery of over  5,000 mega amphs which is 5,226 amphs and I think with this it is also challenging for any other brand to bring in this kind of device. New Samsung Galaxy Note10 comes with enhanced capabilities The devices also have a strong screen which comes at a   cheap price and which you cannot see in any other brand at the moment even globally. This is a glimpse of the Specs of these devices at the moment.” Vanguard The Managing Director of Xiaomi Corporation, Shefiu Gabba said that the market share of smartphones in the country is growing. December 24, 2019 In "News" THERE might be one way to enter into the Nigerian market, but nothing makes a statement like coming in with ten new mobile phones. So it’s no wonder that when French mobile phone maker, Wiko entered the Nigerian phone market officially recently, offering 10 models from its extensive range of… October 23, 2014 In "Technology" Since the debut of Simon Personal Communi-cator in 1992 and the commercialization of what is today known as smartphones in 1995, it is only in the second quarter of 2016 that manufacturers recorded the first decline in shipments across the world. August 8, 2018 In "Technology"