A new free classifieds online marketplace platform, Njalo.ng, had been launchead in the Nigerian market to offer sellers and buyers safety, convenience and global visibility. RCCG provides healthcare services, relief materials to Abuja community According to the company, the platform which started operation last week has been empowering Nigerians with free access to sell any products like smartphones, cars, laptops, clothes, shoes, books/literature, kiddies’ wears, job placement, among others. Co-founder and Chief Technology Officer of the Company, Mr. Emeka Orjiani said Njalo is the unique meeting room between potential seller and buyer. He said the platform is here to contribute its quota in the Nigerian digital economy and also create fundamental changes in the Nigerian e-commerce space. Orjiani said: “Digital Marketplace is a reality. What used to be sold in the regular market can now be sold at the speed of a click. The platform grants users unparalleled, global visibility for whatever it is you want to sell or buy.” He noted that the platform also seeks to bring consumer’s favorite market and products closer to them through online trading and help entrepreneurs build brand recognitions beyond the shores of their environment. Orjiani also disclosed that the platform’s mission is to connect buyers with verified sellers of genuine products and create opportunities for entrepreneurs to widen their business scope by meeting more customers. Okonkwo takes over, pledges to take Cheki to new heights Also the platform Co-founder and Chief Operating Officer, Sandra Ani, said: “When it comes to running any successful online marketplace, many people view marketing and customer service as two separate entities. Vanguard After a surprise acquisition of e-commerce powerhouse, Konga, on Friday, by technology Company, Zinox Technologies, Nigeria’s e-commerce sector is tipped to be on its way to a tremendous growth that will back up Africa’s position in the world market February 7, 2018 In "Technology" Nigeria’s Information and Communications Technology, ICT sector contributes about 8.4 per cent to the gross domestic product, GDP. This sector in turn contributes significantly in driving the trade sector which has grown to about 16.4 per cent according to the 2014 data from the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics. August 24, 2015 In "Finance" Nigeria's online retailer, Konga.com made a transition recently from being just a retailer to a marketplace. The implication is that it is no longer only in the business of buying and selling, it now grants access to other businesses to trade using its platform. The firm said the transitio is… May 12, 2014 In "Business"