THE ongoing bilateral relations between China and Nigeria is aimed at fostering economic development for both countries, the Vice President of China General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria, CGCCN,  Teng Li, said on Sunday. Li stated this at the Chinese spring festival in Abuja, adding that the bilateral relationship between Nigeria and China was a deliberate effort aimed at developing the economic fortunes of both nations. The event which was put together by the China General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria was held at the Nigeria Air Force (NAF) conference centre and attracted many Chinese nationals, companies and their Nigerian counterparts. Citing the rail and the various road projects across the country, he said more and more Chinese companies and people have come to Nigeria to participate in the infrastructural development of the country. According to Li, the Chinese spring festival which commemorates the Chinese new year was a veritable means of deepening the cultural exchanges and friendship between China and Nigeria. He said: “In recent years, with the continuous strengthening of relationship and friendship between China and Nigeria more and more Chinese companies and people have come to Nigeria to participate in the infrastructural development of the country.” “Today all of us gathered here not only to celebrate this important festival but also to establish a platform to deepen the cultural exchanges and friendship between China and Nigeria. This is also the mission and responsibility of the China General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria.” He noted that the CGCCN would continue to foster infrastructural development in Nigeria by encouraging investment and coordination of economic and trade exchanges.  Vanguard   The President, Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr Adetokunbo Kayode, said the economic and diplomatic ties between China and Nigeria had impacted positively on both nations. February 5, 2018 In "News" ABUJA- Bilateral relations between China and Nigeria have reached a new height following yesterday's meeting of the representatives of the two countries. July 18, 2019 In "News" According to Chinese Consul General in Lagos, Ambassador, Chao Xiaoliang, China enjoys bright bilateral relationship with Nigeria, following the mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries in all fields. September 27, 2018 In "News"