The former governor of the State and Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District, Owelle Rochas Okorocha has Congratulated Senator Hope Uzodinma over his Victory at the Supreme Court which declared him the new governor of the State. Owelle Okorocha also Congratulated the APC members in Imo for the Victory. He called on all hands to be on deck for the support of the new governor. Owelle Okorocha assured Senator Uzodinma of his unflinching Support. The apex court, in a unanimous judgement by a seven-man panel of justices that was led by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad, held that Ihedioha who contested on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, was not duly elected by majority of lawful votes. The Supreme Court, therefore, ordered the immediate withdrawal of the Certificate of Return that was issued to Ihedioha by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. It ordered that a fresh Certificate of Return should be issued to Uzodinma forthwith, adding that he should be sworn in immediately as the governor of Imo state The lead judgement was delivered by Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, while other members of the panel concurred. Vanguard News Nigeria. Imo state governor, Rochas Okorocha, Wednesday said it would be difficult for him to convince Imo people to vote the governorship candidate of his party, in the state, of the All progressives Congress, APC, Senator Hope Uzodimma. December 19, 2018 In "News" ....CJN-led panel to determine Tambuwal's fate Monday By Ikechukwu Nnochiri The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, sacked governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo state, even as it declared Senator Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressive Congress, APC, as the valid winner of the governorship election that held in the state on March… January 14, 2020 In "Politics" By Chinonso Alozie Jubilation has taken over the political atmosphere of Imo state, after the supreme court declared Senator Hope Uzodinma, of the All Progressives Congress, APC, authentic winner of the 2019 governorship election. Vanguard observed on Tuesday, in Owerri, the celebration mood was high as some people were seen… January 14, 2020 In "Politics"