The Federal Government has reiterated plans to henceforth back annual budgets with finance bills, according to the Finance Minister, Zainab Ahmed. READ ALSO: SEC phases out unclaimed dividends Ahmed disclosed this in a series of tweets on her personal twitter handle following the signing into law on Monday, of the 2019 Finance Bill by President Muhammadu Buhari. The law is meant to  support the implementation of the 2020 Federal Budget. The Minister said that the bill “has strategic objectives that recognise the crucial relationship between fiscal policy, the regulatory environment and the strong capital market we all seek to effect in Nigeria.” Ahmed further stated: “We planned that from now on, the annual budget will always be accompanied by finance bills to enable the realisation of revenue projections; this supports a stronger implementation process. “Future bills will also provide us with additional opportunities to incrementally improve the fiscal policy and regulatory/legal environment in order to further strengthen Nigeria’s domestic capital market, and ultimately ensure sustained and inclusive growth and development. The Finance Act 2019 has offered incremental but necessary amendments to certain provisions of existing tax laws, including the following: Companies Income Tax Act (CITA), 2004; Personal Income Tax Act (PITA), 2007; Value Added Tax Act (VATA), 2007; Petroleum Profits Tax Act (PPTA); Stamp Duties Act (SDA), 2007; Customs and Excise Tariff Act, 2004; and Capital Gains Tax Act, 2007. “It is important to know that the finance bill has also taken care of essential palliatives to support micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and mitigate the impact of the VAT rate increase on the most vulnerable businesses, communities and citizens in the Nigerian economy. READ ALSO: Private Sector rejects Finance Bill 2019, petitions Buhari “Some of these measures include: Expanding the list of VAT-exempt items (e.g. basic food items, educational materials and medical supplies); Introducing a VAT registration threshold for MSMEs with a turnover of less than N25 million per annum; Reducing the corporate tax rate for MSMEs from 30 percent to 20 percent for Small firms (with turnover of between N25million and N100million per annum.); and exempting micro-firms (with turnover of less than N25million per annum). Vanguard Says no more releases for 2019 Budget By Emmanuel Elebeke & Cecilia Anthony The minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed said the implementation of the 2020 budget takes effect from 1st January 2020. The minister announced this on Thursday, at the Public presentation of 2020 Budget… December 19, 2019 In "News" President Buhari has directed that efforts be made to ensure the presentation of the 2021 Appropriation Bill to the National Assembly in September 2020. The president gave the directive when he signed the 2020 budget at the State House, Abuja, on Tuesday. “I am confident that all Federal Ministries, Departments… December 17, 2019 In "News" The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, has lauded the National Assembly for its speedy consideration of the Finance Bill, 2020 submitted by President Muhammadu Buhari. November 12, 2019 In "News"