United States President, Donald Trump predicted Thursday that his impeachment trial in the US Senate will be over quickly and again dismissed the abuse of power charges against him as “a hoax.” “I think it should go very quickly,” Trump told reporters in the Oval Office as the upper chamber’s members were sworn in to serve as the jury in Trump’s historic trial over the Ukraine scandal. “It’s totally partisan,” he said. “It’s a hoax. It’s a hoax and everybody knows it’s a complete hoax.” Asked about new Ukraine-related accusations levelled by a former associate of his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, he said they had nothing to with him. According to Lev Parnas, who is under indictment on unrelated charges, he “knew exactly what was going on” in a campaign led by Giuliani to dig up dirt in Ukraine on Democratic presidential hopeful Joe Biden. Trump said he had no idea who Parnas was. “I don’t know him, I don’t believe I’ve ever spoken to him,” he said. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The United States House Judiciary Committee is set to take over the impeachment probe of President Donald Trump, scheduling a hearing for next week as they push closer to a possible vote on actual charges of “high crimes and misdemeanors.” Full Coverage: Trump impeachment inquiry The Judiciary panel scheduled the… November 27, 2019 In "Foreign" Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives on Friday took Republican President Donald Trump to the brink of impeachment by approving two charges against him over his efforts to pressure Ukraine to investigate Democratic political rival Joe Biden. A divided House Judiciary Committee voted 23-17 along party lines to approve… December 14, 2019 In "News" U.S. Energy Secretary Rick Perry, a member of President Donald Trump’s Cabinet who has played a pivotal role in the Ukraine controversy, will refuse to testify as requested next week in the Democratic-led impeachment inquiry against Trump, an Energy Department spokeswoman said on Friday. Perry’s refusal represented the latest instance… November 2, 2019 In "Foreign"