A Wuhan hospital doctor has died nine days after contracting the deadly coronavirus as he battled to save infected patients in the city – as the death toll from China’s outbreak jumped to 41 today. Liang Wudong, 62, who had been treating patients in Wuhan, died from the virus this morning, state-run China Global Television Network reported in a tweet. Wudong, who was retired but drafted in to help with the outbreak, died this morning. It was also reported that another doctor, Jiang Jijun, had died from a heart attack while treating patients. It is unknown if the infectious disease specialist, who has treated bird flu and influenza A and tuberculosis over the years, died as a result of coronavirus or from exhaustion. Also today, distressing video has emerged showing the full scale of panic inside Wuhan hospitals, with crowded corridors, patients slumped on the floor and screaming heard in the footage. It shows staff shouting at patients to calm themselves as medics desperately try to contain the situation. Some workers are reported to be wearing diapers as they don’t have time to use the toilet amid the panic. Some 56 million people are now subject to restrictions on their movement as authorities expand travel bans in central Hubei province, now affecting 18 cities. Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam has declared a virus emergency in the Asian financial hub, announcing a package of measures to limit the city’s links with mainland China. Schools, now on Lunar New Year holidays, would remain shut until February 17, while inbound and outbound flights and high-speed rail trips between Hong Kong and Wuhan would be halted. China’s National Health Commission has announced it had formed six medical teams totalling 1,230 medical staff to help Wuhan. Three of the six teams, from Shanghai, Guangdong and military hospitals have arrived in Wuhan. Vanguard Nigeria News Deputy Public Health Minister Satit Pitutecha has confirmed a fifth case of coronavirus infection has been detected in Thailand - a 33-year-old woman tourist from China. Mr Satit said on Friday the patient and her 7-year-old daughter by plane in Bangkok from Wuhan on Tuesday, ALSO READ: It’s too early to… January 24, 2020 In "Health" A deadly viral outbreak in China has now killed 41 people, while the number of infected cases has soared to nearly 1,300, authorities said Saturday (Jan 25). The 15 new deaths all took place in Wuhan, the city of 11 million where the deadly respiratory contagion first emerged, the Hubei… January 25, 2020 In "Foreign" A patient died on Saturday from a mysterious illness after an outbreak in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, according to the local health commission. The emergence of the virus is raising concerns as hundreds of millions of people are getting ready to travel during the Chinese New Year holiday… January 11, 2020 In "Foreign"