As part of its continuous quest to avail its customers with unmatched products and services, broadband service provider, Smile Communications, recently, introduced an innovative Voice and SMS only product dubbed eSIMVoice. Leadership and moral conscience The company disclosed that Smile eSIMVoice comes as a free downloadable application, and when activated, the consumer can enjoy 10 minutes free local calls, unlimited on-net calls and SMSs. The customers can also savour zero roaming charges, free on-net audio and video calls and the lowest call rates to any network. It advised that customers and prospects eager to enjoy its latest innovation, to simply walk into any Smile shop, kiosk or contact an authorised dealer. The service comes with varying voice plan options that will suit every need. Notable among the Voice Plan options are SmileVoice only plan for 65 minutes, which costs only N500, SmileVoice only plan for 135 minutes which goes for N1, 000 and the SmileVoice only plan for 430 minutes at a cost of N3, 000; all the options have 30 days validity period each. To enable as many customers as possible to take advantage of this offer, Smile said it has simplified the process towards adopting and enjoying the new product. To activate the offer, the customer needs to buy a Smile eSIM, complete the mandatory KYC and get their assigned SmileVoice number. Thereafter, the customer will download the SmileVoice app from Google play or App store, click “get activation code”, enter their registered email address to get their activation code and follow other instructions. Health promotion begins with every individual — Expert To make a call, the customer can simply launch their SmileVoice App, dial the number they wish to call and enjoy clear voice calls. Vanguard TELECOMs subscribers nationwide are set to enjoy even cheaper services as Smile Communications Nigeria Limited, a leading broadband service provider, stormed the market with the introduction of the lowest call tariff that allows subscribers make calls at 8 kobo per second to any network from within and outside the country… July 24, 2016 In "Technology" To signpost the festive season in a most customer friendly manner, leading 4G LTE telecommunications service provider, Smile Nigeria has taken steps to serve its teeming customers by introducing the All-in-One SIM offer in such a manner that customers can connect and enjoy free Smile to Smile voice and video… November 21, 2018 In "Technology" Broadband service provider, Smile Communications Nigeria Limited, has been adjudged ‘The Most Innovative Broadband Service Provider Of The Year’ by the organizers of Titans of Tech Awards last weekend in Lagos. August 10, 2016 In "Technology"