The Lagos State AIDS Control Agency (LSACA) has called for stronger engagement and participation of the private sector in the space of HIV/AIDS response in the State. Edo 2020: PDP ‘ll produce young governorship candidate — Chairman At  a roundtable discussion with the Private Sector Organisationsto identify gaps , opportunities , HIV workplace policy and sensitization on the state HIV/AIDS Anti-Stigma Law to optimise HIV service delivery in the State HIV response, the Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Monsurat  Adeleke, stated that the private sector utilised three strategies to reduce HIV burden among their workforce. “One  is investing in HIV Prevention, Care and Treatment Services” as the best option, second is the sensitisation and training of staff on HIV prevention, and, third, the shifting of the burden to the public sector, NGOs and individual households.” Adeleke observed that  since the current National and State response plan has multidimensional, approaches, staging collective efforts  will be more productive and efficient in a partnership between the government and the private sectors; to plan and implement a sustained private sector response that would contribute to the overall state and national responses. According to her , the impact of HIV  and AIDS is complex and multi-dimensional as it could have substantial negative  influence on the organisational productivity, short and long term business cost, consumption  rates, profits, investments business contact and the quality of essential services among other factors. Emefiele’s call on the infrastructure challenge The LSACA boss noted that complacency of the critical stakeholders not responding to HIV would only make matters worse hence the need for an increased engagement and participation of the private sector in the space of HIV and AIDS response in Lagos State. Vanguard Dr Monsurat Adeleke, Director-General, Lagos State AIDS Control Agency (LSACA), has restated the government’s commitment to increase strategic plan to achieve a significant reduction in the incidence rate of HIV infection in the state. Adeleke said this on the sideline of a Sensitisation Awareness Walk and HIV Screening Exercise to… December 2, 2019 In "News" The U.S. Consulate General in Lagos, on Tuesday said that the U.S. Government had disbursed over 3.4 billion dollars to support the Nigerian HIV/AIDS response. November 29, 2016 In "News" By Sola Ogundipe AS part of activities to mark the 2019 International Day of Persons with Disabilities, IDPD, and in line with moves by the Lagos State government to strengthen the HIV response among Lagosians, no less than 250 members of the deaf and the blind communities in the State… December 4, 2019 In "Health"