Following the attack on the New Year crossover night venue on Wednesday in Osogbo, it was learnt that Police has arrested three suspects in connection with the attack. It was gathered that while the thugs were disrupting the event and pelting stones at dignitaries, security operatives were trailing some of the thugs. The three were apprehended by operatives of Operation Puff Adder and taken to the state Police Command. However, the Police Public Relations Officer, Folasade Odoro disclosed that the suspects were arrested while attempting to disrupt the programme. In a chat with our correspondent, she said, “During the New Year Eve festivities held at Freedom Park, Osogbo with the State Governor and other dignitaries in attendance. Some miscreants attempted to mar the exercise at about 1am when His Excellency was about leaving the venue and it was rebuffed by the police Operatives Puff Adder team. However, three suspects were arrested and are helping with investigation”. Meanwhile, the state All Progressives Congress (APC), Prince Gboyega Famodun in a statement signed by his media consultant, Kola Olabisi disclosed that there is no basis for attack on the Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola. In his words: “There cannot be any basis to attack Governor Oyetola who is reputed for giving the people of the state qualitative governance. “It is on record that Oyetola’s government has been paying full salaries to the state civil servants since its inception as and when due while some of the inherited on-going capital projects like road construction/rehabilitation are also being attended to with adequate attention been giving to primary healthcare delivery programme in all the wards across the state”, Famodun explained. The state party chairman wondered that a disagreement between two urchins at the gathering could be equated to attack of the governor and some members of his cabinet. Vanguard News Nigeria. ...It wasn't an attack - Oyetola's aide Shina Abubakar - Osogbo The crossover party organised by Osun State Government to usher in the year 2020 ended on a sad note as thugs invaded the venue and disrupted the event. The event, which was held at the Freedom Park in the… January 2, 2020 In "News" Governor Rauf Aregbesola of the All Progressives Congress, APC, was, last night, shoving aside a stiff challenge from the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP’s Senator Iyiola Omisore as early results from yesterday’s gubernatorial election in Osun State trickled in. August 10, 2014 In "Headlines" Despite the warnings from Police to Osun electorate to desist from anything that would breach the electoral act and cause public violence in the forthcoming re-run in the state, some mischief makers have chosen to ignore the call for peace by indulging and obtaining illegal materials that are detrimental to… September 26, 2018 In "News"