The Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministries Enugu Nigeria (Amen), Reverend Father Ejike Camillus Anthony, Ebenezer Mbaka, has visited the Imo state governors office and dedicated the office and the entire building to God. Mbaka was said to have spent about three hours, cleansing and dedicating the building to God. READ ALSO: ICYMI: Ihedioha pack up, Uzodinma is coming ― Mbaka speaks again Sources comprising of Security men and civil servants at the State Government House, Owerri, according to Punch said that; “Fr. Mbaka was here (Government House) on Wednesday. He was the one who dedicated the governor’s office. He was here for over three hours. He came with another priest, Fr Otimbodombo, and his church workers. “He was in one of the cars for a long time before he came down and dedicated the governor’s office. We later besieged him and he started blessing us and blessed our sacramental’s and chaplets. “Fr Mbaka personally prayed for me and I was happy. He blessed my chaplet which I will be using for prayers. They left after staying for, at least, three hours. ” READ ALSO: Fr Mbaka’s prophecy: Social media goes wild as Supreme Court sacks Ihedioha for Uzodinma Recall that the Catholic Priest of Enugu Dioceses, had prophesied that Hope Uzodinma would take over from Emeka Ihedioha. A prophecy that came to pass on Tuesday. Vanguard The founder and Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministries Enugu Nigeria (Amen), Reverend Father Ejike Camillus Anthony Mbaka, has in the above video clip anointed Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra state, thus to fortify him spiritually for the forthcoming November 18th gubernatorial election in the state. October 15, 2017 In "Videos" Radical Catholic priest, Reverend Father Ejike Camillus Mbaka, who has been in the eye of the storm days after he reportedly passed controversial political-cum-prophetic judgements on President Muhammadu Buhari; the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar and his running mate, Peter Obi, may have been compelled by the… December 8, 2018 In "News" THE Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry Enugu Nigeria (AMEN), Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka has described Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State as a Godly leader, who has brought peace to the ministry in particular and the state in general. November 13, 2017 In "News"