US-based Nigerian filmmaker, Odera Ozoka is surely working underground to actualize his political ambition. Read also: Buhari greets Amanyanabo of Kalabari at 90 Recently, the award-winning film maker was  the guest of Igwe Micheal Idigo V Ezeudo, the paramount ruler of Auguleri, Anambra State. He was at the ancient town to celebrate  the 128th Ovala Aguleri festival (Ovala Ovu Obi), with the people as well as pay homage to the monarch who was also marking his first year on the throne. Speaking at the event,  Ozoka commended the monarch’s desire to expand the Ovala culture in a way to boost tourism  and generate financial gains for his people.  He urged the Igbos to learn to preserve their cultural heritage, just as he hopes experience smiliar thing in other cultures spanning northern and southern part of the country. “It festival was a sight to behold. It took me back to my childhood days in many wonderful ways. I could see the same excitement in the faces of the tens of thousands of  visitors as well as the illustrious sons and daughters of the community as they turned out in their numbers to be part of history. It was one of delight, happiness and wonder,” he stated. The event held in Amaeze square  showcased the rich cultural heritage of Aguleri Kingdom. Read also: Four years after, our achievements, our setbacks- Kelech Eke, TAFF founder Dressed in his royal regalia accompanied by his cabinet, the monarch was ushered into the arena as he danced to the tune of Ịgba Eze and Uvie music. Later, men and women of various ages danced to the rhythm of the traditional drummers as different groups and families took turns to entertain the people and pay homage to the traditional ruler. Vanguard Hollywood-based Nigerian film maker, Odera Ozoka, who has been working on the war epic, “Biafra: A forgotten Place’ for some time now, has revealed the challenges he’s facing in executing the project. November 16, 2019 In "Entertainment" Award winning Nigerian film maker based in the United States, Odera Ozoka who recently breezed into the country to premiere his new movie “Soul Diaspora”at the Ozone Cinema, Yaba, has secured $400,000 from two private investors to begin shooting of another film on Biafra titled “A forgotten place.” The shooting… February 25, 2012 In "Home Video People" Award- winning Hollywood-based Nigerian filmmaker, Odera Ozoka, who co-produced the highly funded $2 million film, Ije: The Journey, starring two of the country’s greatest actresses, Genevieve Nnaji and Omotola Jolade-Ekeinde, is returning to the trenches again with his French-born actress collaborator, Clotilde Delavennat, after the success of his first feature… June 20, 2014 In "Home Video People"