The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised its supporters in Kano State to remain calm and avoid acts capable of causing trouble in the state. Alhaji Rabi’u Suleiman-Bichi, the state’s PDP Caretaker Committee Chairman, gave the advice while speaking with newsmen in Kano on Monday. Sulaiman-Bichi, who was reacting to the Supreme Court ruling affirming Ganduje as the duly elected governor of the state, stressed the need for party supporters to maintain the peace for the development of the state and country at large. He also urged them to remain steadfast and not engage in any form of crisis. “My call to our supporters is for them to remain calm over the recent development. “Let us put hands together to move our party forward,” he said. He said that the party had accepted the verdict that affirmed Ganduje as duly elected governor of the state. “We thank the Almighty Allah for the current situation. “As you know we were at the High Court where the decision was not in our favour and we went for appeal, there too it was not in our favour. We then exploited the final option and went to the Supreme Court. “We have accepted the final judgment in good faith and we will forge ahead to move our party forward,” Sulaiman-Bichi said. NAN reports that the Supreme Court on Monday affirmed Ganduje as the duly elected Governor of the state. NAN further reports that security was beefed up in and around Government House and other strategic locations in the state after the judgment to forestall any eventuality. Vanguard Nigeria News By Abdulmumin Murtala, Kano Following the victory of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of the ruling All Progressive Congress, APC, the  Kano state chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Rabiu Sulaiman Bichi declares that they have accepted the judgement of the court in good faith. "We are grateful to Almighty God… January 20, 2020 In "Politics" Vanguard news reported the cold reception Sen Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso received when he moved from the leading All Progressive Congress APC to the Peoples Democratic Party PDP in Kano. September 4, 2018 In "News" The nullification of the election of all three senators, 12 members of the House of Representatives from Rivers State and last Wednesday, the governorship election that threw Barrister Nyesom Wike as the helmsman in Rivers State may have put the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP in jeopardy. Despite the tension ahead… December 18, 2015 In "News"