The Federal Government has warned firms handling construction projects in the country to obtain Environmental Impact Assessment, EIA, before the commencement of work on any project. The government noted that the warning became imperative following the high level of devastating havoc done to some communities’ lands in the country because of some carelessness at which some construction firms evacuate laterite. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Ita Enang, who issued the warning during the commissioning of erosion project at Nduotong Oku in Uyo Local government of Akawa Ibom, blamed the cause of the gully erosion on unauthorised evacuation of literite. The N1.069 billion erosion control project was executed by the Ecological Fund Office of the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. Senator Enang, noted that contracting firms would be held accountable on environmental impact assessment before they begin work on any project. He said that the erosion disaster in the Nduotong was not natural but arose as a result of excavated laterites in the community for Ekom Iman, Ekid Itam  and Itam junction road constructions projects without any remedial measures. Senator Enang who initiated and got the approval of the Federal Government noted that there is always provision for obtaining laterite in the road construction contract. He commended the Secretary   to Government of the Federation and the Permanent Secretary of Ecological fund for their effort on the project. Vanguard “Environmental Impact Assessment is a tool for sustainable development. The primary purpose of the EIA is to ensure that environmental concerns are incorporated into any project planning, design and decision making. A successful updating of the Act will not only update the document to current realities but will serve as… June 16, 2015 In "Homes & Property" Against the backdrop of criticisms that have trailed the ongoing development of Eko Atlantic City on an expansive parcel of land reclaimed from the Lagos Bar-Beach, the Lagos State Government and South Energyx Limited, developers of the nine million square metres city, weekend, rose in stout defence of the scheme,… May 29, 2012 In "Homes & Property" Environmental Rights Action, ERA/Friends of the Earth Nigeria, FoEN, has called on Bayelsa State Government to make public the Environmental Impact Assessment report for the ongoing Igbogene road by-pass in Yenagoa, the state capital. September 15, 2016 In "News"