Turkey’s parliament has passed a bill that would allow the government to deploy troops to Libya to intervene in the civil war. Turkish lawmakers passed the bill on Thursday, with 325 in favour to 184 against. Turkey is allied with Libya’s United Nations-backed government, which is based in the capital, Tripoli. The Libyan government has been fighting an insurgency by forces under Gen. Khalifa Haftar, based in eastern Libya. Egypt, which backs Gen. Haftar, condemned Turkey’s vote, saying it would “negatively affect the stability of the Mediterranean region.” Last week, Turkish President, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said he would seek parliamentary approval to provide military assistance following a request by the Tripoli government. Mr. Erdogan, whose ruling AK Party commands a majority in parliament, was able to pass the legislation without support from major opposition parties, which voted against it. The bill allows for the deployment of non-combat troops, to act as advisers and trainers for government forces against Gen. Haftar. (BBC)  Vanguard Recep Tayyip Erdogan held talks with Libyan Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj in Istanbul on Sunday, just days after the Turkish leader said he was ready to send troops into Libya if requested by Tripoli. The closed-door meeting, which was not on Erdogan's official agenda, took place in Istanbul's Ottoman-era Dolmabahce… December 15, 2019 In "Foreign" Turkey will send troops to Libya at the request of Tripoli as soon as next month, President Tayyip Erdogan said on Thursday, putting the north African country’s conflict at the center of wider regional frictions. Libya’s internationally recognized Government of National Accord (GNA) has been fending off a months-long offensive… December 26, 2019 In "News" A Turkish team was in Russia on Monday for talks on the conflicts in Syria and Libya, following reports that tens of thousands more Syrians were heading to Turkey, which already hosts to the world’s biggest refugee population. President Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday more than 80,000 civilians in Syria’s… December 24, 2019 In "Foreign"