The Kano State Executive Council has approved the payment of N78,701,027:62 as contribution of the state government for the implementation of the 2019 Health Work Plan. This was made known over the weekend by the Commissioner for Information Muhammad Garba. The program, which is a tripartite Memorandum of Understanding with Dangote Foundation and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to improve child health outcomes, is also intended to improve healthcare delivery services in the state. He further explained that the state’s health MDAs will partner with the two foundations to enhance the child health delivery services in the state and is committed to the agreement. He said “the MoU is being carried out by the state Ministry of Health Hospitals Management Board, Drug and Medical Consumables Supply Agency and the state Primary Healthcare Management Board.” The commissioner also revealed that the state council has sanctioned the constitution of a technical committee to look into the issue of professional misconduct and abuse of privilege by media organizations in the state. The committee, which will be chaired by the commissioner Information, will among other things, organize a stakeholders’ meeting comprising the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), Film Censorship Board, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Information, proprietors of radio stations, security agencies, party chairmen, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), among others, to discuss the problem and proffer solutions. Vanguard News Nigeria Kano State Government has approved N79 million as a contribution to the implementation of the 2019 Health Work Plan. The state Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, disclosed this on Saturday when he briefed journalists on the outcome of the State Executive Council meeting. He said: “The programme, which is… January 11, 2020 In "News" Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has declared his unflinching support for the implementation of all health sector reforms towards achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in the state. Ganduje, represented by Nasir Gawuna, the Deputy Governor of Kano State, made the pledge at a three-day workshop for all states’ social… September 24, 2019 In "Health" Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has declared his unflinching support for the implementation of all health sector reforms towards achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in the state. Ganduje, represented by Nasir Gawuna, the Deputy Governor of Kano State, made the pledge at a three-day workshop for all states’ social… September 24, 2019 In "Health"