Manchester United legend Ryan Giggs believes Paul Pogba will leave the club before the start of next season and thinks Ole Gunnar Solskjaer will be better off getting rid of the World Cup winner. Pogba has started just six games in all competitions this season with a persistent ankle problem further delaying his return until February, after it was confirmed he required surgery. And speculation over his future at Old Trafford has continued to run wild. Solskjaer has publicly supported Pogba, but his former teammate Giggs doesn’t believe the midfielder has shown enough consistency. When asked by Premier League Productions whether he wanted or expected to see Pogba at his old club next season, Giggs said: “No, no. “I feel sorry for Ole because he’s got to continuously answer questions on Paul Pogba. “I say United are on a good run at the moment and that’s without him. He’s come on and done okay in a few games but it’s disappointing at the moment. “He is a talent, we talk about him all the time, he’s not consistently done it for United. “Ole can only deal with the players that are fit at the moment. “To continuously answer questions on a player that is rumoured to be leaving, to be injured, to be elsewhere when he should be perhaps in Carrington training, is frustrating to a manager.” Source: Football 365 Vanguard News Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has no issues with Paul Pogba and his desire to regain fitness despite the France World Cup winner's continued absence due to injury. Pogba has not played for United since 30 September due to a persistent ankle injury, missing 21 games for club and… December 22, 2019 In "Sports" Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has given Manchester United momentum thanks to his tactical acumen and United should give him the manager’s job on a permanent basis, club great Ryan Giggs has said. February 18, 2019 In "Sports" Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is confident that Paul Pogba will still be at Manchester United next season but admits he cannot guarantee the French World Cup winner will stay. April 26, 2019 In "News"