United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, has introduced  UBA Connect, a service that enables the   customers of the bank to conduct traditional banking transactions at any UBA branch in the 20 African countries where the bank operates. The service, which is available to both customers and non-customers alike, is expected to encourage intra-African trade, as cash withdrawal can now be done in local currencies within the continent while deposits can also be made at any location regardless of where the account is domiciled. The Chief Executive Officer, UBA Group, Mr. Oliver Alawuba, who spoke about the product, said, “Africa stands to benefit substantially from intra-Africa trade, which is facilitated by the easy flow of capital within the continent. As a bank committed to creating superior value for all its stakeholders, we are focused on ensuring that we continue to contribute significantly to the development of Africa by improving accessibility and trade with UBA Connect, among other innovative services.” He explained that the new offering allows easy transfers to UBA accounts across African countries as well as cash deposit into UBA accounts at any of the bank’s locations in Africa, adding that the cash will be dispensed to customers in local currencies at competitive exchange rates. Group Head, Marketing, Mrs. Dupe Olusola, said, “We’re thrilled to be able to offer our customers the ease and convenience of UBA Connect. This is in addition to an array of digital platforms which have made banking seamless for more than 12 million people who have trusted us with their money. Vanguard Trade and com merce in Africa has received a major boost with the introduction of three trade related products; Afritrade, AfriCard and AfriCash by United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc. These unique products have been designed by UBA to facilitate trade transactions across the continent. September 30, 2010 In "Business" The Zambian High Commissioner to Nigeria, His Excellency, Alex Luhila, has commended the United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc for its critical role in the growth and development Zambia’s economy and those of other African countries. September 16, 2010 In "Business" In recognition of its capability to fund big ticket transactions across the continent, United Bank for Africa Plc, UBA, has emerged the winner of the 2010 Afreximbank Financial Institutions Gold Awards 2010. December 12, 2010 In "News"