Immediate past governor of Ekiti state, Ayodele Fayose has on Wednesday, cautioned those angry over his enjoyment status, to desist from further condemning his actions. Stakeholders push for quality in health insurance coverage He said that anyone who is angry with him for enjoying himself should go and hug any available transformer. Fayose who reacted via his twitter handle against criticisms from some Nigerians that he lied to a court that he was sick and needed to be admitted in a United State hospital, opined that he went for a medical checkup and not on admission. Recall that a federal high court had on December 7, granted him permission to travel abroad for medical treatment. Fayose was spotted dancing with a white lady in a party in US. He was equally seen relaxing in a beach. Irked with his actions, some Nigerians took to various social media platforms to condemn his conduct. But in what can be said to be a riposte, Fayose averred, “These “hailers”, when I was on their case, they were crying. Now I’m on my own lane enjoying my life, they are still crying & sucking. Fayose’s money laundering trial resumes October 21 Expect more so you can cry more. I’m on medical checkup not admission. Celebrating New Year is my right, haters can hug transformer. Happy New Year” See tweets below: These “hailers”,when I was on their case,they were crying. Now I’m on my own lane enjoying my life, they are still crying & sucking.Expect more so you can cry more. I’m on medical check up not admission. Celebrating New Year is my right, haters can hug transformer.
Happy New Year — Peter Ayodele Fayose (@GovAyoFayose) January 1, 2020  Once again, Happy New Year to everyone, particularly my haters politically or otherwise. How far can you go in your machinations? Definitely nowhere …Remember; “He that is blessed of God cannot be cursed.” I will remain your headache in 2020 if you don’t repent. — Peter Ayodele Fayose (@GovAyoFayose) January 1, 2020  In this year 2020, God will give you victory over every oppression that has inflicted your life with hunger, sufferings and wants. He will take you to the greatest height of success. He will return Nigeria to the path of peace, progress and unity. Happy New Year. — Peter Ayodele Fayose (@GovAyoFayose) January 1, 2020  Its a miracle! Peter is healed! Praise The Lord! Doctors can work wonders sha. Ayodele Fayose On Medical Dancing therapy. This means he’s no longer in severe pain and we won’t be seeing him on stretchers during his next court appearance or on his way to jail. Thank you Doctors pic.twitter.com/VZGkrirKQ6 — Lauretta Onochie (@Laurestar) January 1, 2020 Vanguard Ado-Ekiti-Ekiti State Governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose has described the denial of the Department of State Services (DSS) that it was not aware of any court ruling, ordering the release of the detained Ekiti State House of Assembly member, Hon Afolabi Akanni, as "ridiculous, height of executive rascality and open display… March 19, 2016 In "News" When the news broke on March 4 that operatives of the Directorate of State Security Services (DSS) had stormed the Assembly Complex of Ekiti State, and allegedly whisked away four lawmakers to Abuja, mixed reactions trailed the development. April 3, 2016 In "News" Angry women and youths yesterday besieged the headquarters of the Economic and Financial crimes commission, EFCC to demand the immediate probe and prosecution of the Ekiti state Governor, Ayodele Fayose over what they termed, his involvement in the arms probe deal. January 20, 2017 In "News"