The Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad, has distanced himself from a former Senator that represented Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Shehu Sani, who allegedly used his name to solicit for N4million bribe. Sani who is currently in custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, allegedly approached a car dealer, Alhaji Sani Dauda of ASD Motors and purportedly demanded for the sum of N4m to give to the CJN to settle some unnamed four Judges so they could compromise justice in a case that is pending in court. The vocal former lawmaker was arrested last Tuesday by the anti-graft agency for alleged extortion and name-dropping. He reportedly claimed that the bribe money would ensure that the pending case does not “see the light of the day”. However, the CJN, in a statement that was signed by the Director of Press and Information at the Supreme Court, Dr. Festus Akande, and made available to newsmen on Sunday, said he has never in his entire life, seen or had any form of encounter or interactions, either directly or remotely, with Senator Sani. The CJN vowed to take appropriate legal steps should ongoing investigations confirm that the ex-lawmaker indeed attempted to use his name to collect money from the said car dealer. He said such legal action would serve as a deterrent to “other potential name droppers and extortionists”. Vanguard Gets order to detain him for 2 weeks ASD boss debunks claims of Senator, accuses Shehu of dropping CJN’s name for cash I’m innocent, Sani claims Soni Daniel More trouble appears to be piling up against detained former Kaduna Central Senator, Shehu Sani, over allegation that he demanded and collected… January 2, 2020 In "News" THE National Judicial Council, NJC, yesterday waded into the crisis rocking the judiciary, by directing suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN,  Justice Walter Onnoghen, to respond to corruption allegations against him within seven working days. January 30, 2019 In "Headlines" The suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Justice Walter Onnoghen  has resigned with immediate effect. April 5, 2019 In "News"