 FORMER General Manager in charge of Public Affairs of the Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, Chris Borha, has said that the establishment of a Maritime Coast Guard, MCG, is the only solution to the problem of piracy on the nation’s waters. In an exclusive chat with Vanguard Maritime Report, Borha who is also Head Analyst of C.A. Borha Management and Economic Services, stressed that the personnel for the Maritime Coast Guard should be drawn from the Nigerian Navy, the Marine Command of the Nigerian Police and other government agencies with such expertise. He stated: “The solution now is to have a Coast Guard; they have killed the idea of the Nigerian Coast Guard based on vested interests, based on power tussles. “I think the evidence is now complete that the solution to our problem is to have a dedicated government organ that is in charge of coast maritime security. “It should be advocacy on the part of the Port Authority; I think we should advocate it to put an end to all these service contracts here and there. “We do not know the extent or ramification of such contracts. The Nigerian Navy has competence, expertise in coastal management, coastal maritime management, so we take the expertise of the coastal maritime management of the Navy, we take from all the various institutions and we go right ahead and institute a Coastal Guard. “There must be a Coast Guard Force, Nigerian Coast Guard Force, that will be government-owned, that will be legitimate or that can relate with both private and governmental organisations and can be working in the interest of the federal republic of Nigeria,” he noted.  A maritime consultant and head analyst of C. A. BORHA (Management and Economic Services), Christopher Borha, has called for the creation of an independent Coastal Defence Force as permanent solution to the challenge of pirate attacks on the nation’s waterways. July 26, 2018 In "Maritime Report" The persistent traffic gridlock along the Apapa – Oshodi Expressway has forced mass relocation of businesses and individuals out of Apapa, causing property rents to crash by 50 percent. January 19, 2015 In "Business" Piracy By Ediri Ejoh PIRACY: The priority placed on safety of ships, cargo, and personnel by the global shipping community cannot be overemphasised. Thus, implementing measures to enhance security without impeding the timely flow of legitimate commerce is critical to any nation that depends largely on the operations of the blue… November 24, 2019 In "News"