The police on Friday arraigned one Oguntola Adisa in an Abeokuta Magistrates’ Court for allegedly defrauding the National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives in Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Aro-Abeokuta, of N2.7 million. Adisa, who resides at No. 7, Olupeju Avenue, Obada Oko, is facing a three-count charge of fraud, stealing and conspiracy. The Prosecutor, Insp Olu-Balogun Lawrence, told the court that the defendant committed the offence sometimes in September 2006 at Obada area in Abeokuta Lawrence alleged that the defendant fraudulently collected N2.7 million from the Association of Nurses for 10 acres of land located at Agbamaya area of Abeokuta and absconded. He said the defendant conspired with others now at large to obtain the money from the complainant knowing fully that he does not have any land to sell to the association. The prosecutor told the court that the offence contravened Section 419 and 390(9) of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ogun, 2006. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges. The Magistrate, Mr Olakunleyin Oke, granted bail to the defendant in the sum of N1million with two sureties in like sum. Oke ordered that the sureties must be gainfully employed and must also provide evidence of tax payment to the state government. He adjourned the case till Jan. 17 for trial. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. A 42-year-old man, Femi Dasaolu, was on Wednesday arraigned at an Abeokuta Magistrates’ Court in Ogun, for defrauding End Time Christ Ministry, Church, Abeokuta N3.2 million. January 18, 2017 In "News" Lagos—Two brothers, Olanrewaju Afuwape and Kolawole Afuwape, have been charged before an Igbosere Magistrate’s Court in Lagos, over alleged forgery and stealing of N1.3 million realised from house rent. August 12, 2019 In "News" Lagos—A 76-year-old man, John Orimogunje, who allegedly presented himself as a land speculator and obtained the sum of N8 million from two women, was yesterday arraigned before an Igbosere Magistrate’s Court in Lagos. March 30, 2016 In "News"