An outbreak of Lassa fever in Borno state has claimed the life of 24 year old man while three other suspected cases recorded are under investigation. The state Commissioner of Health, Dr Salisu Kwayabura made the disclosure at a press conference held on Thursday evening in Maiduguri. The commissioner noted that since the first case of Lassa fever through a German woman in Lassa community of Askira Uba Local Government Area of the state in 1969, which gave the name of the disease, this is the second outbreak to be recorded in Borno state. He said the deceased travelled to Hawul and returned back to Maiduguri, before being admitted at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital ( UMTH ) , where the symptoms manifested with sample taken from him testing positive. He said of the three cases under investigation, one is a health worker with two other individuals, who are presently being managed in rapid response facility created by the state against the disease. Dr Kwayabura said:” While it is my responsibility to inform the public about the outbreak, I call for calm, as the state has put necessary measures to halt the further outbreak. ” On the fate of the internally displaced persons ( IDPs ) living in the camps over the outbreak, the commissioner explained that the IDPs have no need to worry, as the state readily prepared for any emergency. He announced that meetings will be going on henceforth, from 4pm every day for update on the latest about tackling the outbreak. Vanguard News Nigeria. Nigeria may be battling the worst outbreak of Lassa fever in history. The fever which has afflicted over 284 has killed about 154 Nigerians from different parts of the country from August 2015 to date. September 11, 2016 In "Health" SOMETIME in 1969 in a town called Lassa in the part of Nigeria now known as Borno State, a nurse in a mission hospital died of a mysterious disorder. There were two similar reported cases in Chicago, and New Jersey, United States (US). Both individuals had recent travel history to… January 10, 2016 In "Health" MAIDUGURI—Borno State has recorded its first victim of Lassa Fever as a 32-year-old lady, who resides in Zabarmari village of Jere Local Government Area, tested positive. March 2, 2017 In "News"