   Save Lagos Group, a Southwest Association, out of curiosity has given the All Progressives Congress stalwart, Bola Tinubu, 24 hours to reveal his position on the Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed ‘Operation Amotekun’. Tinubu has remained silent on Amotekun since its launch and this has attracted many people who see him as one of the top leaders in the Southwest. The Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, SAN, had on Tuesday declared the outfit as illegal while the Southwest governors have remained unfazed. In a statement on Friday, the Convener, Save Lagos Group, Adeniyi Sulaiman, said the group was giving Tinubu 24 hours to speak up. Sulaiman asked Tinubu, who is an advocate of restructuring, to be courageous regardless of his rumoured Presidential ambition. The activist rubbished threats by northern groups like the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore which stated that supporting Amotekun may cost the Southwest the Presidency in 2023. He said it was hypocritical of the Federal Government to allow Shariah Police, Hisbah, to operate in more than 10 northern states while it declared Amotekun, which is operating only in the Southwest as illegal. The SLG convener said the safety of the people of the Southwest was worth more important than any Presidential ambition. He commended several personalities like Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka; Afenifere chieftain, Chief Ayo Debanjo; activist, Mr. Femi Falana, SAN; Chief Olu Falae, Otunba Gani Adams and several others for speaking up for the people of the region. Vanguard Nigeria News S-West governors dare FG No going back on outfit — Akeredolu Malami lacks power to ban it — Makinde Amotekun has come to stay — Soyinka By Dayo Johnson, Dapo Akinrefon, Peter Duru, Ola Ajayi, Henry Ojelu & James Ogunnaike Following Tuesday’s declaration by the Attorney-General of the Federation and… January 16, 2020 In "News" Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN), Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Justice Minister, Abuja. Dear Sir, PROTEST OVER YOUR ILLEGAL ORDER TO SOUTH-WEST GOVERNORS I find it disturbing your statement of Tuesday, January 14, 2020, declaring the security initiative of South-West governors 'Amotekun' as illegal. You also threatened that the full… January 15, 2020 In "News" Oodua Peoples Congress, (OPC) has berated a northern group, Northern Youths Council of Nigeria (NYCN), for kicking against the Thursday launch of the Western Nigeria Security Network, codenamed “Operation Amotekun” by the governors of the six states of the South West. This is just as Igbo Socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo,… January 11, 2020 In "News"