United States investigators assessing the cause of NBA legend, Kobe Bryant helicopter crash revealed it has no black box. Kobe Bryant, his 13-year-old daughter, along with seven others were reported dead in the crash. A black box according to officials is not a requirement on such an aircraft. Reports indicated there was a dense fog at the time the chopper, a Sikorsky S-76B was in the air. Forty minutes after the helicopter took off, a 911 call reported that the aircraft, which was travelling northwest, crashed into flames on a hillside, Los Angeles County fire officials said. The pilot of the helicopter, identified as Ara Zobayan, had been given special clearance by air traffic control to keep flying in the declining weather, according to the audio of the exchange, NBC reported. The absence of the black box in the helicopter was noted by Washington Post could hinder the investigation of the cause of the crash. Investigators are asking for the public’s help to provide photos of the weather conditions Sunday morning in the Los Angeles area — potential clues that could help piece together the ill-fated flight’s final moments. National Transportation Safety Board, NTSB, board member Jennifer Homendy said the pilot was using an iPad for his flight plan. “We’ll be looking at other avionics on the aircraft to see what other information we can gather,” she added, “and then we’re going to be looking for other electronics.” Bryant, 41, his daughter Gianna, 13, and the other passengers were reported to be headed to his Mamba Sports Academy in Thousand Oaks for a basketball tournament. Vanguard News Nigeria. Friends, colleagues and fans mourned Kobe Bryant on Monday as federal investigators sifted through the wreckage of the helicopter crash that killed the basketball legend and eight other people, hoping to find clues to what caused the accident that stunned the world. Kobe Bryant, 41, was traveling Sunday with his… January 28, 2020 In "Sports" Kobe Bryant reportedly died in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California, on Sunday morning. The 41-year-old former Los Angeles Lakers basketball star's death was confirmed by TMZ. The outlet reported that Bryant was travelling with four other people in his private helicopter when it crashed, killing everyone on board. The legendary… January 26, 2020 In "Sports" NBA legend who played for Los Angeles Lakers, Kobe Bryant died Sunday in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California. The 41 years old was reported to have been travelling with at least four other people in his private helicopter when it crashed, killing everyone on board. TMZ has confirmed that… January 26, 2020 In "Sports"