The pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, on Thursday, Berated Miyetti Allah over remarks that the South-West may lose the 2023 presidency if it fails to drop its security outfit codenamed: Operation Amotekun, saying the north can go to with its presidency. The Miyetti Allah Kaute Hore had described Amotekun as illegal saying it may affect the chances of the region to produce the presidency in 2023. But Afenifere’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, lampooned Miyetti Allah describing the remarks as an insolence. Odumakin said: “Miyetti Allah now owns the Presidency which they can gift to who they want and deny who they choose? What insolence? Cowherders threatening a people that produced the first lawyer in 1879 because a lawyer who doesn’t know the law is overreaching himself? Can they go and tell Yoruba in Benin Republic such idiocy? It is now a crime that we inhabit the same country with them? If Yoruba would be conised, is it by those we should employ on our ranches? “To hell with their Presidency if the condition for it is that we must allow them to continue to waste the lives of our people. Who told these people Yoruba cannot opt for self-determination and have our own president? If they see the protection of our lives as politics, we are definitely in a wrong and impossible country.” Vanguard Nigeria News •Sheikh Abubakar, Makinde back Bakare •Bakare can relocate to another country —Presidency source The Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Cardinal John Onaiyekan, Yoruba socio-cultural and political group, Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo and Sheikh Abdulrahman Abubakar of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, all agreed with Overseer of Latter… May 15, 2019 In "Headlines" AFENIFERE, the Yoruba socio - political group Tuesday expressed grave concern over the genocide that took place in Plateau State last weekend and asked Nigerians to vote out President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 to save the country from utter destruction. June 26, 2018 In "News" On its part, the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has described the Federal Government's announcement of southwest security outfit, Amotekun, as a joke taken too far. This is just as it called on the South-West governors to ignore the Attorney General of the Federation. Afenifere’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr Yinka Odumakin… January 14, 2020 In "News"