The world heavyweight champion, Anthony Joshua, Saturday prostrated before President Muhammadu Buhari as a sign of respect, to the number one citizen of Nigeria. Joshua who is a British-Nigerian boxer took out time to take pictures with Buhari and his entourage in London. In the pictures, Joshua was seen holding his belts with Buhari. It was indeed a moment of joy for Nigerians in UK. Recall that Buhari had on Friday travelled to London to participate in the inaugural UK-Africa Investment Summit holding on Monday, January 20, 2020. He would also according to Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity hold a meeting with the Head of the Commonwealth, Prince Charles in Glasgow, Scotland. Buhari will also have bilateral meetings with Prime Minister Johnson as well as heads of multilateral organisations. Having arrived London, Buhari mapped out time to chat with Nigerians living in the United Kingdom. There he met with the world heavyweight champion whose father is originally from Sagamu in Ogun state. Disclosing this information is the Personal Assistant to the President on New Media Bashir Ahmad via his verified twitter handle. Below are the photos and video: Selfie  #PMB @anthonyfjoshua  pic.twitter.com/YU2mMkRo6t — Bashir Ahmad (@BashirAhmaad) January 18, 2020  Nigeria’s @anthonyfjoshua, World’s Heavyweight Champion, takes his BELTS to President @MBuhari today in London. pic.twitter.com/ZTjFk8xSQj — Bashir Ahmad (@BashirAhmaad) January 18, 2020  President @MBuhari meets with Nigerians living in the United Kingdom today in London, the Champ, @anthonyfjoshua was in attendance. #PMBinLondon pic.twitter.com/JUoJPuUrRW — Bashir Ahmad (@BashirAhmaad) January 18, 2020  RESPECT; @anthonyfjoshua, the world heavyweight champion greeting President @MBuhari after a meeting of Nigerians in Diaspora put together by @nidcom_gov. pic.twitter.com/y5IHJ6F4f1 — Bashir Ahmad (@BashirAhmaad) January 18, 2020  Vanguard Anthony Joshua after a 12 round of fierce exchange of punches reclaimed his world heavyweight titles from Andy Ruiz Jr who defeated earlier in the year (1 June 2019). Joshua won the bout unanimously on points at the Diriyah Arena in Saudi Arena to reclaim his four titles. Full name… December 8, 2019 In "Features" World heavyweight boxing champion Anthony Joshua has expressed appreciation to the Consul General of Nigeria in New York, Mr. Benaoyagha Okoyen, for psyching him up to reclaim his titles. After Joshua lost to Andy Ruiz Jr during their first match in New York in June, Okoyen sent him a letter… December 12, 2019 In "News" World heavyweight boxing champion Anthony Joshua has expressed appreciation to the Consul General of Nigeria in New York, Mr Benaoyagha Okoyen, for psyching him up to reclaim his titles. After Joshua lost to Andy Ruiz Jr during their first match in New York in June, Okoyen sent him a letter… December 12, 2019 In "News"