Borno State High Court sitting in Maiduguri as granted the Economic and Financial Crimes (EFCC’s) application that Aisha Alkali Wakil (popularly known as “Mama Boko Haram”) and two others be remanded in the correctional centre. EFCC Maiduguri Zonal Office on Monday arraigned Mama Boko Haram” along with two others namely; Tahir Saidu Daura and Prince Lawal Shoyade at the Borno State High Court, Maiduguri. The defendants were arraigned on an amended five-count charge, bordering on conspiracy, obtaining money by false pretence and cheating to the tune of N111, 650,000 (One Hundred and Eleven Million, Six Hundred and Fifty Thousand Naira). According to the anti-graft commission, Acting Head, Media & Publicity, Tony Orilade, the defendants sometime in 2018 conspired and falsely presented to one Mohammad Umar Mohammed, purported contracts for installation and servicing of 10 pieces of Chison 600A, 2009 version deluxe ultrasound system and the supply of white beans through their non-governmental organisation (Complete Care and Aid Foundation). Count five of the charge reads: “That you, Aisha Alkali Wakil, Tahiru Saidu Daura, and Prince Shoyade, whilst being chief executive officer, programme manager and country director respectively of Complete Care and Aid Foundation (a non-governmental organisation) and Saidu Muktar (now at large) sometime in October 2018 at Maiduguri, Borno State, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court with intent to defraud, induced one Mohammed Umar Mohammed of Nyeuro International Limited to deliver to you 3,000 (three thousand) bags of 50kg white beans worth N65,000,000.00 (Sixty Five Million Naira) under the guise of executing a purported contract of supply of the said beans which you knew to be false and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 320(a) and punishable under Section 322 of the Borno State Penal Code Laws Cap 102.” They pleaded not guilty to all the charges, prompting prosecution counsel, Benjamin Manji to apply for a trial date and prayed the court to remand the defendants in the Nigerian Correctional Centre pending the determination of the case. Justice Aisha Kumalia ordered that the defendants be remanded in a correctional centre and adjourned the case until February, 10, 11 & 12, 2020 for the commencement of trial. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Wednesday dragged Barr. Aisha Alkali Wakil popularly called Mama Boko Haram to court over allegations of fraud amounting to N66 million. Mama Boko Haram along with Tahiru Alhaji Saidu Daura, the Programme Manager of Complete Care and Aid Foundation, an NGO owned by… December 4, 2019 In "News" With a strong conviction that the Abu Musab Al-Barnawi-led faction of Boko Haram might be responsible for the abduction of Dapchi School Girls, a respected North-East human rights activist, popularly called Mama Boko Haram, Barrister Aisha Alkali Wakil has appealed to the abductors to release the young female captives. February 27, 2018 In "News" Mrs Aisha Wakil, popularly known as Mama Boko Haram says she will partner with International Committee of Red Cross to rescue Leah Sharibu, the only Christian among the 112 kidnapped by Boko Haram insurgents from Girls Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe state. July 23, 2018 In "News"