In furtherance of its commitment to empower, enhance and promote healthy living amongst Nigerian women, Keystone Bank Limited has announced its partnership with Medplus Pharmacy, Nigeria’s leading health and beauty retailer to offer its ‘Pink Network’ card holders who purchase health and beauty products from the pharmacy, a discount ranging from five to 10 percent. Equities market closes end of year positive as investors gain N112.4 bn A statement by the lender said it is    partnering with the health and beauty company to proffer solutions to the challenge posed in accessing quality, genuine healthcare and beauty products in Nigeria. The bank further explained that the partnership would see its female customers with a Keystone Bank Pink debit card get 10 percent    discount off all drug purchases and five percent discount off non-drug purchases in any Medplus Pharmacy nationwide. Commenting on the partnership, Keystone Bank executive director, Adeyemi Odusanya, stated: “Women’s health needs differ at every life stage, from puberty to pregnancy, menopause and overall wellbeing. Women are also very conscious of their beauty and self-care, hence the growth of the beauty industry. “However, finding access to quality healthcare and beauty products can sometimes be a challenge; either they have to battle with the cost or the fear of counterfeit products which have infiltrated the market. Unity Bank partners Veritas to deepen financial inclusion “And to solve this predicament, Keystone Bank is partnering with the renowned pharmacy, Medplus through its PINK Initiative for women, giving them access to quality health and beauty products at a discount.” Vanguard In furtherance of its commitment to empower, enhance and promote healthy living amongst Nigerian women, Keystone Bank Limited has announced its partnership with Medplus Pharmacy, Nigeria’s leading health and beauty retailer to offer its ‘Pink Network’ card holders who purchase health and beauty products from the pharmacy, a discount ranging… December 31, 2019 In "Business" In demonstration of its commitment to promote and support healthy living amongst Nigerians, Keystone Bank Limited has partnered with “The TunMicro Sickle Cell Foundation”, a UK-based humanitarian organization and ‘Slum2School Africa’ to create awareness about Sickle Cell Disorder (SCD) in Lagos. June 8, 2019 In "Health" Mr. Obeahon Ohiwerei is the Group Managing Director/CEO of one of the fastest growing financial institutions in Nigeria, Keystone Bank Limited. July 2, 2018 In "Finance"