Wayne Rooney enjoyed a winning debut with Derby as the former Manchester United star helped his Championship side to a 2-1 win against Barnsley on Thursday. Rooney was named Derby captain for his first appearance since agreeing to join the second-tier club back in August. United and England’s record goalscorer had been training, coaching and sitting in the dugout at Derby matches for several weeks, but Thursday was the first time he had been eligible to play following his departure from Major League Soccer side DC United. The 34-year-old, included at the expense of the suspended Krystian Bielik in the only change made by Derby boss Phillip Cocu, played the full match, despite it being his first competitive game since October. He set up the opening goal for Jack Marriott and was involved in Derby’s second goal, providing a pin-point diagonal pass to Andre Wisdom, whose low cross was turned home by Martyn Waghorn. Elliot Simoes had equalised for Barnsley, but struggling visitors couldn’t ruin Rooney’s return to English football. Rooney’s debut coincided with Cocu’s team winning successive matches for the first time this season, but they remain 17th in the table. Charlton began their new era under fresh ownership with a 1-0 defeat at Swansea. Yan Dhanda’s first-half strike was enough to propel the Swans into the play-off places. Charlton kicked off a new chapter under the ownership of East Street Investments after their takeover from former owner Roland Duchatelet was confirmed by the EFL four hours before the Liberty Stadium clash. But the injury-ravaged south Londoners are a mere five points clear of the bottom three after a miserable run of just one win in 14 matches. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Former England captain Wayne Rooney is to leave Washington-based DC United after agreeing a deal to become player-coach of English Championship side Derby County. August 6, 2019 In "News" Wayne Rooney has agreed a "deal in principle" to join Major League Soccer side DC United from Premier League club Everton, reports said Thursday. May 10, 2018 In "Sports" Teenage midfielder Jason Knight scored his first goals in professional football as Derby County beat Charlton 2-1 on Monday ahead of former England striker Wayne Rooney becoming eligible to play for the Championship club. Victory saw Derby end a run of seven games without a win and came despite the… December 31, 2019 In "Sports"