The ruling party in Nigeria, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has taken a swipe at the main opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), saying the party represents the single biggest obstacle to good governance and change in the country. Malam Garba Shehu, the President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, in a statement in Abuja on Thursday, said the country’s main opposition party had no business in the internal affairs of the governing party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). He said: ”As the Peoples Democratic Party, the country’s main opposition party grapples with deeply troubling questions about its terminal decline and future in national politics, Nigerians must be surprised reading a statement issued by them, assuming the role of Spokesmen for President Muhammadu Buhari. ”What business do they have talking about alleged love lost between President Buhari and the APC? What do they know? Who sent them? ”Today, the PDP represents the single biggest obstacle to good governance and change that the country needs and the people are yearning for. ”Both self-respect and sound political judgement demand that the Party takes an introspective look at itself after two successive defeats in national elections, asking what went wrong and how to fix its battered image. ”They need to go back to the people, in towns and villages, to know what the people want and what the country needs. Instead of doing that, they are taking roles for themselves that are not mandated by law, morality or political gamesmanship. ”What business do they have issuing a statement on the love or the lack of it between the President and his party? This is not why they lost elections. ”The party needs a reboot that aligns with current national mood and aspirations, to focus on their grim future after two successive defeats. ”It is the issue they need to focus on if they are to be taken as a serious opposition party again.” According to him, a tough task awaits anyone leading a party with nothing to offer to contemporary Nigerians but corruption, misgovernance and division. ”As for the APC, the geographical expansion of the party is nothing short of a testimony to the rosy future that lies ahead. The party has come to stay, and the President and the country will ensure that this is achieved,” he added. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja THE Presidency on Thursday described the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the biggest obstacle to good governance and change Nigerians are yearning for. The Presidency also told the PDP, which is the main opposition political party in the country, to take a retrospective look at itself… January 9, 2020 In "News" THE Presidency Tuesday night advised Nigerians to be wary of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and not to allow the party sabotage the democratic dispensation in the country. January 15, 2019 In "News" Less than a year to the next general elections in Nigeria, the biggest deficit in the political process leading to that moment is the absence of a robust, virile and effective opposition. April 7, 2018 In "Viewpoint"