Vanguard gathered that the police officers were on stop and search duty around the popular Abraka Market area, opposite Sandi Gold hotel, Friday night when they were attacked by the hoodlums at about 9 pm. Sources said the attacked police officers lost their guard while on extortion when the hoodlums struck. A source who sought anonymity said the hoodlums who appealed from no where in a commando style disorganised the officers before they struck. Saying that the victims sustained deep machete cuts, he added that “After the attack, the criminal elements escaped without vehicle, they were just walking along the road before they disappeared”. Confirming the incident, the State
Commissioner of Police, Mr. Hafiz Inuwa said “as far as am concern, the rifle collected were two not three. “I gathered that this is not the first time the incident happened in the state before my arrival. But this is the first time since I took over as Commissioner of Police. With the power of God and the strategy and intelligence we have, it will not occur again. “Within eight days of my arrival, I have recovered over ten firearms hoodlums used to commit crimes in the state. We are on the trail of the hoodlums and anybody caught will be seriously dealt with.” ASABA—RESIDENTS of Asaba were thrown into confusion Monday night after daredevil armed bandits took on a police patrol van attached to ‘C’ Division of the Delta State Police Command at Cable Point area of the capital city, Asaba, leaving one of the five officers in the team dead and another… September 19, 2018 In "News" IT is not strange at many police formations across the country these days to see policemen rebuff posting to what they consider as “dangerous beats”. In fact, you can count the number of policemen that want to be drafted to chase armed robbers. October 28, 2018 In "Crime Alert" GUNMEN, yesterday, attacked a bullion van at the Koka Junction axis of the Benin-Onitsha expressway, Asaba, Delta State, carting away an undisclosed amount of money December 9, 2017 In "Crime Alert"