Edo state governor, Godwin Obaseki has accused his predecessor, Mr Adams Oshiomhole of supporting godfatherism in the state. PMB at 77: The trajectory of honesty, hard work and patriotism Obaseki who disclosed this while hosting ward leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oredo local government area of the state, said it was quite unfortunate that Oshiomhole who came to him when he (Oshiomhole) was the governor of state to assist him fight godfatherism is the same person sponsoring ‘godfatherism’ in the state. Speaking further, Obaseki said that he came into office with a mission to fight against godfatherism and change the narrative of development in the state. His words according to TheCable: “Comrade Oshiomhole came to me, asking that we join forces to fight and bring an end to the practice of godfatherism in the state, ” he said. “The partnership helped us in changing the narrative of development in the state. This led me into politics. I am into politics to better the lives of Edo people. We believed Oshiomhole and followed him to fight godfatherism. “He said godfatherism is not good but today he is saying godfatherism is good. He said let the people lead but today he wants to lead the people, against their interest.” He said with the resources available in the state, the people have no business being poor, and that the bad leadership style adopted in the past was responsible for poverty. “Any politics that doesn’t benefit the majority of the people is bad politics. The resources we have in the state is to be used for the benefits of the people of Edo State, not a few politicians,” he said. “Our people have no business being poor but our leadership has brought us here.” The governor said he is confident he would secure the ticket of his party for a second term in office. “I am in politics to improve the life of Edo people. We have done more in three years with less resources. Imagine what will happen in eight years. “When they say I am a mosquito, I was never worried; I told them that mosquitoes can bite. The bite can cause malaria and if not well-treated, it can kill someone. Those bitten are already on life support but we pray they don’t die. “The last time an incumbent ran for governorship in our party in the state, it was a consensus. “It will happen again; we will all agree on consensus. Whether direct or indirect primary, you, the people, will vote. Our plan is on the election, not the primaries. Urhobo youths endorse Okowa for second term “God has continued to fight for us. All the strategies and antics against this government has failed. We will build this party and you will be the envy of all others who are not in our party but we are sure they will join us soon.” Vanguard ABUJA— Immediate past National Chairman of  All Progressives Congress, APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, has added in on the crisis rocking the party in his home state, Edo, accusing his successor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, of anti-party activities. June 24, 2019 In "News" Prof Julius Ihonvbere is the Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Basic Education. In this interview with Vanguard, the lawmaker representing Owan Federal Constituency of Edo State provides insight into the plot by some governors of the All Progressives Congress, APC, to oust the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. December 16, 2019 In "News" Prof Julius Ihonvbere is the Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Basic Education. In this interview with SundayVanguard, the lawmaker representing Owan Federal Constituency of Edo State provides insight into the plot by some governors of All Progressives Congress, APC, to oust the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. BY… December 15, 2019 In "News"