Stephen Imoukhuede known in the music realm as Ozimorr has unveiled his major plan for 2020 and is simply to make good music and great videos. We’ve not made any money from Peruzzi, GoldenBoy Ent. laments In a chat with Showtime Bonus, the man born on March 22, 1988 in Benin City and from Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State said ; “ My plan for 2020 is bringing out good songs and quality videos and to sign upcoming artistes to the record label. So, the industry should be fully ready for creativity from our stable.” Being a big-time music and business enthusiast, Ozimorr is presnetly an emerging performing artiste as well as the Chief Executive Officer of two resourceful companies in Nigeria; Ozi Worldwide Entertainment Limited and Ozi Imoukhuede Biz Company Limited. Ozi Worldwide Entertainment Limited is a record label company fully registered under the Corporate Affairs Commission. Its services cut across artiste management, music promotion, showbiz and general entertainment business. Saham Unitrust announces change of name Within five months in professional  music, Ozimorr has released three tracks, namely; Do That Thing, More Love and Bursting Everywhere, featuring Erigga Paperboi with two standard videos being promoted across several platforms. Visual to ‘Bursting Everywhere’ is set to hit the industry soon. Ozimorr is also into various businesses under his Ozi Imoukhuede Biz Company Limited. Vanguard By Juliet Ebirim Anambra-born Tochukwu Toks Young Umezulike, popularly known as Toks Asher Young has an innate passion for music. The Nnamdi Azikiwe University graduate of Electro-Mechanics who grew up in Enugu is not resting on his oars as an artiste manager, producer and music entrepreneur. His love for music… November 28, 2019 In "Entertainment" As part of plans to help grow the Nigerian entertainment industry, fast rising record company, The Narcos19, a record label priding itself as a selfless organization that models its operations as collaborative and innovative, such that artistes and management can both contribute towards success that is mutually beneficial for all… July 25, 2019 In "Entertainment" The Nigerian entertainment industry enjoyed good music from greenhorns and big shots in the music making craft in 2017. January 6, 2018 In "Music"