A governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Mr. Kenneth Imasuangbon, on Wednesday , stated that the PDP would win the Edo governorship election if the party elected the right persons and picked a strong candidate that is loved by Edo people. He, therefore, called on members of the party to vote in credible executives at the party congresses scheduled to begin this Saturday. Imasuangbon said the bastion of any political party is reflected in the type of leadership elected at the grassroots level. Speaking to reporters, Imasuangbon reminded the Edo PDP members that the expected victory at the governorship polls would be easy if they elected sincere leaders and believed in party loyalty. He said the current crisis in the ruling All Progressives Congress should be exploited by PDP to take back power in Edo State and that the only way that could be done was for the party to ensure credible leaders were elected. He said: “Edo PDP members have no choice than to do away from the past where few persons will pick the party’s leadership in the bedroom. They have to be steadfast. “If we get it right from this Saturday then the victory of the party during the governorship election is assured.” Also, a PDP support group, the PDP Youths for Justice, Alhaji Musa Kadiri, praised National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, for promising free and fair congresses in Edo. Kadiri cautioned the outgoing State Executive led by Chief Dan Orbih not to support weak leaders to take over affairs of Edo PDP. vanguard A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo State and aspirant for the forthcoming governorship election in the state, Mr Kenneth Imasuangbon, has said it was the turn of Edo Central Senatorial Zone to occupy the governorship of the state. July 3, 2019 In "News" The claim by Ogienwonyi and Imasuangbon are either borne out of mischief or out of ignorance. I prefer to consider it as mischievous because one of them is a lawyer and the other is an accomplished petroleum engineer who has served as a minister in this country. Therefore, I really… July 2, 2016 In "News" AHEAD this weekend’s governorship primary of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo State, youths of the party under the aegis of PDP Youth Vanguard, said they believe that Mr. Kenneth Imasuagbon will pick the ticket. February 23, 2012 In "News"