President Muhammadu Buhari has said the opinion of a former Minister of Defence, Lt. Gen Theophilus Danjuma (retd), is not more important than that of millions of Nigerians who voted for his reelection in 2019. Buhari stated this in an email chat with The Interview released in Abuja on Saturday. The Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief of the Interview, Azu Ishiekwene, in a statement on Sunday, highlighted some of the President’s comments in the interview. When Buhari was asked if he was concerned about the vote of no confidence expressed by Danjuma during a recent book launch in Ibadan, he said: “And what is the vote of confidence of Nigerians in me, as expressed in the polls last year? That is what matters more, not the opinion of one man.” At the forum which was attended by several prominent people from the Yorubaland, Danjuma had said if he reveals what he knows about the happenings in the government, Nigerians would lose sleep. The President, however, said his re-election was a vindication of voters’ confidence and support for him and his government’s policies. On his relationship with Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Buhari said things were “perfect,” between them. He was asked to rate his relationship with his deputy on a scale of one to 10. But the President replied: “Perfect. Or has he complained to you?” He also commented on the insinuation that a “cabal” runs his government; his promise to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty, and criticisms that his claim that he is now a “reformed democrat,” is fake.  Vanguard   Governor Yahaya Bello does not need to jump into the fire, yet. The Kogi State governor who had, in fact, sprained an ankle in what might have been a practice match for the big leap, was saved the trouble after President Muhammadu Buhari finally gave the hint that he would… April 13, 2018 In "Converstion with Azu" A former Minister of ‎Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode has said ex-leaders including former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo, Goodluck Jonathan, former military President State, Ibrahim Babangida, ertswhile Minister of Defence, General Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma (retd) and a handful of other opposition elements are not enemies of the Nigerian state. June 10, 2018 In "News" Elder statesman, Chief Edwin Clark, yesterday, said he was disappointed at the call by former Minister of Defence, General Theophilus Danjuma (ret), that former Niger Delta militants should be arrested and prosecuted for warning that there would be war if President Goodluck Jonathan loses the presidential election on February 14.… January 30, 2015 In "Headlines"