The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) have reached agreement on how to collaborate to    combat financial crime in the Nigerian capital market. Stock markets usher in New Year with big gains This agreement was reached when the managements of both organisations met yesterday   in Abuja.  In a statement made available to Vanguard, the Acting Director General of SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, explained that: “The visit was necessary in order to seek collaboration, and also leverage on the expertise and mandate of the ICPC in tackling corrupt practices especially fraud, which has been prevalent in the Nigerian capital market and which is a major obstacle to the actualization of the objectives of the Commission.” Uduk said:   “The objective of regulating the capital market is to protect investors, maintain fair, efficient and transparent market by ensuring integrity in the market place and by preventing fraudulent practices.” This shared goal, she added has necessitated a collaboration with relevant anti-corruption and law enforcement agencies in a bid to ensure that the market is fair to all investors. “we are aware that your agency is established to curb corruption in the public sector, but as an agency of government we owe investors the duty to protect their investments, hence the need for this collaboration”, she said. SEC, FCCPC sign MoU to simplify companies’ mergers Uduk further said: “The capital market has witnessed incidences of fraud by market operators who have converted and diverted investors’ funds and utilised same for the acquisition of personal properties within and outside Nigeria and this potentially undermines investor confidence. Vanguard The House of Representatives was yesterday, embroiled in controversy following mutual allegations of corruption between the Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Ms Arumah Oteh and the House. March 16, 2012 In "Headlines" The Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, ICPC, on Tuesday, arraigned the suspended Director General of the Security and Exchange Commission, SEC, Mounir Haliru Gwarzo before an Abuja High Court at Maitama over alleged fraud. June 5, 2018 In "News" A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory sitting at Maitama, on Tuesday, discharged and acquitted the suspended Director General of the Security and Exchange Commission, SEC, Mounir Gwarzo. April 16, 2019 In "News"