The Governor of Kano State, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje said the intention of building the first state-owned cancer treatment centre facility was borne out of research and investigation it conducted which revealed that Prostrate and Breast cancer is prevalent among men and women respectively in the state. The governor speaking at the foundation laying ceremony of the CancerTreatment Centre said the facility will solve 90 per cent cancer treatment cases in the state. “Let me inform you the genesis, intention why we conceive this very important project. First of all, we had research among the population in Kano State to find out the types of cancer diseases that are prevalent. “And among men, we discovered that it is prostate cancer while for the women, it is the breast and cervical cancer and so many other cancer-related cases that are prevalent in Kano State. And so, in order to solve the problem, we conceived this and came up with a design and equipment. “And according to our investigation, the equipment to be used in the facilities can solve 90 per cent of cancer treatment cases that are existing in Kano. And that is the genesis of this cancer treatment centre “Now, the issue is that what are we aiming that by creating this centre. First, we want to increase health coverage. “Secondly, we want to synchronise the need of the rich and the poor by establishing a first-class healthcare centre which the rich would be convinced that they should come to Kano for cancer treatment and the poor because cancer does not marginalise the rich or the poor. We are going to have a basket fund to take care of the less privileged in the state,” Ganduje said. Earlier, the Commissioner of Health, Dr Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa, commended the Governor for his foresight in improving the healthcare service delivery to serve the people of the state. However, on its part, the contractors both the structural and facilities components promised that the centre will be the highest and the best in Africa. The projects are however billed for completion by July, this year. Vanguard News Nigeria. Lays foundation of cancer centre in Kano to change status quo By Bashir Bello The Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo has on Monday said the country contributes 15 per cent death from cancer disease in West Africa. This he said informed the decision of the Federal government to introduce the… January 14, 2020 In "Health" Mention the word, ‘cancer’ and fear grips everyone around.   To many people, it is gradually becoming the number one killer illness. Is it really?   Yes, the claim that cancer is a killer illness is not only alarming but is also true. December 24, 2017 In "Health" BY the end of 2018, the Federal Government would have spent the sum of N55.19 trillion as budgets for 10 years, if the N8.612 trillion proposed by President Muhammadu Buhari for this year is approved by the National Assembly. March 31, 2018 In "Headlines"