The Kano state government has announced that it is on top of the situation to ensure that it has eradicated Lassa fever from the state. This was stated in a welcome address by the commissioner for health, Dr. Aminu Tsanyawa while receiving a philanthropist and renowned businessman, Malam Hassan Hajaik in his office on Wednesday. “We wish to state that we are doing everything medically possible to curb the spread of Lassa Fever in the state and have put to work all the required machinery” he stated. The philanthropist was at the commissioner’s office to donate materials to the state government to support the fight against the outbreak of Lassa fever. The Commissioner who was represented by the Permanent Secretary Dr. Binta Bala  said: “the state government under the present administration would continue to collaborate  with corporate associations and individuals that will contribute to the well being of its citizenry.” The commission expressed appreciation for his kind gesture and pledged to judiciously utilize the donated items for the purpose it is given. He further urged other well-meaning Nigerians in the society, private firms and non-governmental organizations to emulate the philanthropist. The commodities donated to the state include soap, face mask, sponge, hand gloves and safety boots. Other items include Augmenting syrup and hand sanitizers. Earlier, in his remark, Hassan Hajaik said “this gesture was in consideration of the state government’s commitment to curb the menace of the deadly Lassa fever in the state within the shortest possible time. “Thus is very necessary because of our cosmopolitan nature especially in the crowded residential areas. “I also use this opportunity to commend the health workers for their zeal and commitment to eradicating this outbreak.” vanguard By AbdulSalam Muhammad KANO - The district Head of Tudun Wada, Tudun Wada local government area of Kano state, Alhaji Bashir Ibrahim Mohammed has said no fewer than 8 persons have lost their lives to Lassa fever over the past few days. The District Head who briefed the Emir of… March 31, 2017 In "News" Following the loss of 42 lives to the Lassa fever outbreak out of the 86 reported cases, some residents in the affected states have remained indifferent. While some stated that they have not paid attention to the development, some indicated that they were no adequate awareness campaign to guide people… January 16, 2016 In "News" The Federal Government has confirmed 212 suspected cases of Lassa Fever in 64 Local government areas across 17 states in the country, even as it warned against a conspiracy of silence among the states of the federation. January 20, 2016 In "Health"