The Ogun State Government has confirmed a case of Lassa fever in the state, with a firm assurance that all is being done to contain it. In a press release by the Commissioner for Health, Dr Tomi Coker, the suspected Lassa fever case was confirmed by the Ogun State Virology Laboratory on January 24, 2020. According to Dr Coker, the patient is a pregnant 29 year- old who took ill and was referred to the Federal Medical Center (FMC), Abeokuta. However, contrary to some reports circulating in the media; the Commissioner noted that; “the patient is not dead as she was transferred  to the Federal Specialist Hospital in Irua, Edo State, whose facilities provide the patient with the full benefit of multidisciplinary care required for her due to her pregnancy.” She further stated that the Rapid Response Team has commenced line listing of all who have come into contact with the patient for surveillance purposes, including her relatives and hospital staff that managed the case. Dr Coker assured members of the public that the State Government acted proactively by putting all countermeasures in place to contain the situation. Urging residents to maintain proper hygiene, Coker stated that members of the public should avoid contact with rodents, pointing out that they should cover their food properly and ensure that their food is warmed before eating it. Urging residents to maintain proper hygiene, Coker stated that members of the public should avoid contact with rodents, pointing out that they should cover their food properly and ensure that their food is warmed before eating it. “We have given thermometers to those who have been in contact with the patient to monitor their temperatures and also provided Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) at the designated treatment centre at Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu. “Our health educators and officers have been deployed into action and are educating the public on ways to avoid being infected with Lassa fever. “Other emerging or suspected cases of viral hemorrhagic fevers are to be isolated in the designated quarantine areas for barriers nursing until a definitive diagnosis is concluded. “The State Epidemiologist and DNSO should immediately be notified on telephone numbers  09099140121 and 09099140122  in case of any suspected case,” Dr Coker added. Vanguard News Nigeria. IN the last fortnight or thereabouts, the Southwest has been on edge over Lassa fever outbreak in Lagos and Ogun states. Between the two states, a total of six confirmed cases and two deaths were recorded, while 256 were placed on surveillance at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, LUTH; Mainland… August 18, 2017 In "Health" The corpse of the second Lassa fever victim simply identified as Mr Hope, that died within 24 hours after admission in the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, LUTH, has been buried, even as a 22-year-old male patient is undergoing medical observation for suspected Lassa fever at the Ogun State General Hospital,… August 11, 2017 In "Health" Surveillance officers and health workers in Lagos and Ogun States have been placed on high alert, even as Ogun State confirmed 1 case of Lassa fever and the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, LUTH, assured that confirmed  cases in the institution are responding to treatment. August 14, 2017 In "News"