Marcus Rashford is unlikely to be fit for Manchester United’s clash with Liverpool on Sunday, according to manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. Rashford came off the bench and was involved in Juan Mata’s winning goal just minutes later as United beat Wolves 1-0 in the FA Cup third-round replay. Rashford was forced off 10 minutes from time with an apparent back problem, however, with Solskjaer admitting the plan to use Rashford had “backfired”. Solskjaer later assured they would do everything possible to get Rashford fit for the trip to Anfield, but he is not convinced he will be ready. “I can’t tell you now,” Solskjaer told reporters on Friday when asked whether Rashford would be available. “We’ll do some more checks and treatment with him today. I’m not going to hold my breath. But let’s see. “As I said with Harry Maguire a few weeks ago, of course, we’re going to give him the absolute amount of time to find out. “We’re going to do some more checks and treatment with him today. Yesterday, of course, was just a recovery day anyway and some treatment for him. “I haven’t seen him this morning, but I’m not going to hold my breath. I would probably think that he wouldn’t be ready, but let’s see. There’s still 48 hours, more than that, so let’s see.” said Solskjaer Source: Footmob Vanguard News Manchester United proved on Sunday that their recovery under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is no flash in the pan, with Marcus Rashford pouncing to seal a 1-0 win in a thrilling contest against Tottenham. January 13, 2019 In "Sports" Marcus Rashford marked his 200th appearance for Manchester United with two goals that restored some much-needed confidence in a 4-0 Premier League victory over bottom side Norwich on Saturday. Anthony Martial and impressive teenager Mason Greenwood were also on the mark as Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's team maintained their hopes of… January 11, 2020 In "News" Manchester United manager, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, has credited Anthony Martial with helping fellow forward, Marcus Rashford, to rediscover his goal scoring form and confidence in recent matches. Rashford, who turned 22 on Thursday, scored twice in United’s League Cup victory win over Chelsea in midweek including a stunning free-kick that… November 1, 2019 In "News"