The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) says the date for the sales of its registration documents for the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) still stands, despite the suspension of the NIN. The Board’s Head, Media and Information, Dr Fabian Benjamin, who disclosed this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday, said that the process for the acquisition of the PIN remained the same. He said aside the now suspended use of National Identification Number (NIN) by the board’s management, all other process remain the same. According to him, no other new process had been introduced by the board as being speculated by some sections of the public. He emphasised that candidates desirous to sit for the examination should send their surname, first and middle names in that order to 55019 for their UTME PIN and profile code. He said portal for the registration was expected to be activated on Monday, Jan. 13, the day for the commencement of the sales of the documents. “Candidates are advised to use one unique telephone number that will be tied to him or her. Those who have also registered for the examination before now should still use the same telephone number to get their UTME PIN. “We are looking forward to a seemless registration excercise as all logistics to ensure its success have been fully deployed to the various registration centres. “We will stick to the registration window or calendar as agreed by other examination bodies because they equally have their own examination schedules and will not want a clash. “To this end, therefore, we also want to implore candidates for Directed Entry to commence the process same day as those for the UTME, as it will close the same day,” he said. Meanwhile, Benjamin stated that it has come to the notice of the board that a large number of candidates who had been offered admission for the 2019 UTME were yet to accept it. “We also discovered that some candidates are mistaking such acceptance as being the one put in place by their universities of choice. “We want to make it clear that clicking ‘accept’ on JAMB’s portal does not attract any fee. “It is free. Just go to profile on the admission menu and click ‘accept’ and then go ahead to print your admission letter. “We, therefore, call on all candidates that have been offered these admissions to do the needful as we round off the process for the 2019 admission on Feb. 17,” he said. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board(JAMB) has called on all prospective candidates for its 2020 UTME to acquire the National Identification Number(NIN). The board’s Spokesman, Dr Fabian Benjamin said on Tuesday that the aim was to ensure the biometric and other necessary details of a candidate were captured, to check… September 25, 2019 In "Education" House of Representatives yesterday urged the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) to extend the commencement year for the compulsory use of National Identification Number (NIN) for better awareness. November 13, 2019 In "News" ABUJA-House of Representatives yesterday urged the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) to extend the commencement year for the compulsory use of National Identification Number (NIN) for better awareness. November 13, 2019 In "News"