Dozens of U.S. citizens working for foreign oil companies in the southern Iraqi oil city of Basra were leaving the country on Friday, the Oil Ministry said, after a U.S. air strike killed a top Iranian commander in Iraq. The U.S. embassy in Baghdad urged all its citizens to leave Iraq immediately, hours after the U.S. killed Iranian Quds Force leader Qassem Soleimani and Iraqi militia commander Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis. Iraqi officials said the evacuation would not affect operations, production or exports. Company sources told Reuters earlier the workers were expected to fly out of the country. Oil production in Iraq, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, was about 4.62 million barrels per day (bpd), according to a Reuters survey of OPEC output. A spokesman for BP (BP.L), which operates the giant Rumaila oil field near Basra, declined to comment. Rumaila produced around 1.5 million bpd as recently as April. Italian energy group Eni (ENI.MI) said Iraq’s Zubair oil field, which produced around 34,000 bpd net to Eni last year – a fraction of the field’s overall output – was “proceeding regularly”. Eni said the group was closely monitoring the situation in Iraq. Genel (GENL.L), an oil producer in the autonomous region of Kurdistan in northern Iraq, said its operations were continuing normally. It did not comment on any staff movements. Gulf Keystone Petroleum (GKP.L), which also operates in Kurdistan, said “while these events are taking place in the south of Iraq, Gulf Keystone is closely monitoring the situation and operations at (the) Shaikan (field) are carrying on as per usual”. DNO (DNO.OL) did not immediately reply to a request for comment. Source: Reuters Vanguard News Oil prices jumped nearly $2 a barrel and gold, the yen and safe-haven bonds surged on Friday, after a U.S. air strike killed a top Iranian commander in Iraq, ratcheting up tensions between the two powers. Traders were clearly spooked after the death of Iranian Major-General Qassem Soleimani, head of… January 3, 2020 In "Foreign" Washington is committed to “de-escalation” after a U.S. air strike in Baghdad killed Qassem Soleimani, the architect of Iran’s growing military influence in the Middle East, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says. Pompeo said on Twitter on Friday that he spoke to British Foreign Minister Dominic Raab and China’s top… January 3, 2020 In "Foreign" Iraqi officials have imposed a curfew on Basra, the country’s second biggest town, following five days of deadly demonstrations, in which government buildings have been ransacked and set alight by protesters. September 8, 2018 In "News"