The First Lady, Mrs Aisha Buhari has donated foods items to women groups, correctional homes, orphanages and other less privileged groups in Gombe state. The items were distributed by Hajiya Asma’u Yahaya the wife of the state governor at a ceremony in Gombe. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the items included 1000 bags of rice, 600 cartons of spaghetti and 300 jerry cans of vegetable oil. Speaking at the event, Yahaya said the gesture was aimed at touching the lives of the beneficiaries. “The First Lady has the people of Gombe in mind that is why she is demonstrating such through the distribution of food items. “This is because she wants to give them a sense of belonging,” she said. She said there was no religious or ethnic consideration in the distribution as the items were meant for those that needed assistance. She added that the distribution was done based on the needs of the vulnerable groups. She appreciated the groups for their cooperation during the distribution. In his remarks, Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President Malam Abdulahi Aliyu said the decision to share the food items was to assist the needy. Aliyu commended Gov. Inuwa Yahaya, for the good work he has started since he assumed office. Alhaji Umar Goro, state Chairman of the People Living with Disabilities thanked the wife of the president for the gesture and called on her to do more. Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru Wife of the President, Dr. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari has made a donation of food items and other nourishment to Mile Four Hospital and Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. The First Lady who has been going round to different parts of the country on… December 14, 2019 In "News" Hajiya Aisha Buhari, the wife of the President, has given scholarship awards to 60 orphans in primary school in Daura. September 4, 2017 In "News" The First Lady gave the assurances, especially to her supporters during a visit to Benisheik, one of the liberated towns of Borno State, where she flagged-off the distribution of relief items to displaced rural women under her brain-child 'Get Involved' initiative, a sub-component of her pet project, Future Assured. October 27, 2016 In "News"