Feisty and fierce Nollywood actress, Moyo Lawal who is well known for her ‘no holds bar’ lifestyle and approach to life has made a rather loud and bohemian case for sexy women. According to her, sexy women and those who expose their skin should not be seen as promiscuous. She was particularly bothered that it is women who are oftentimes guilty of the crime. “Why do women call ‘sexy women names and just assume they are promiscuous. These days, majority of women are having sex with married men, and cheating while married. So, why do you think you are better than women who show skin, who ironically (most times) are not even as half as promiscuous as women who hardly show skin,” she said. Then she dropped the bombshell: “You better accept, we are all indecent together” and she added “hypocrites”. The Badagry-born actress is always an eyeful menu on the Instagram, posting all sorts of sensual pictures, generously displayed. She’s fearless and would take on anything or anyone. She became popular as Chinny in the rested M-Net soap opera, Tinsel but has since hit the big times. She has a million followers on Instagram. Vanguard Over time, curvy junk-in-the-trunk Nollywood actress, Moyo Lawal, has had to grapple with the piercing reality of  being loose and promiscuous. Recently,  when she was accused of being loose, she responded by taking to her Instagram page to declare that she hardly goes down with the opposite sex and that,… June 24, 2018 In "Entertainment" Feisty Nollywood actress, Moyo Lawal, is never out of circulation when it comes to being in the eye of the social media storm. Lately, the Badagry-born screen diva has been so active on her Instagram page popping amoral questions, one after the other and on daily basis. June 9, 2018 In "Entertainment" Some have said there are several personalities to the person called Moyo Lawal, a curvaceous actress who is well known as the character ‘Chinny’ in the Mnet soap opera ‘Tinsel’. She’s an effervescent type, who could blow either old or cold, depending on the tide her temperament is riding. March 29, 2014 In "Entertainment"