The Lagos State Educating Nigerian Girls in New Enterprise, ENGINE II programme coordinator, Mrs Francisca Olusola has called on the government to implement strategy plans, policies geared towards the improvement of marginalized girls. 2019: The world expects credible polls from Nigeria – US Ambassador Olusola who spoke recently at a novelty match, as part of activities marking the 16 Day of Activism against Gender Based Violence organized by the ENGINE II, a DFId supported program under the Girls Education Challenge, stated that the challenge with locating marginalized girls was enormous. At the novelty match that had in attendance, community leaders; ENGINE II participants and learning centre facilitators, including the media and Police among others, ENGINE programme coordinator, explained that the match was aimed at creating awareness about gender based violence; encouraging communities to take a stand against rape and share contact information of organisations where victims can get help. On what ENGINE II do, Olusola noted that, “ENGINE II works with over 6,000 girls in Lagos State to improve their literacy and life skills and to help their life outcomes. We also provide a supportive environment around the girls to make sure they are protected from all forms of violence. Why Action Health Incorporated is a partner on the programme specifically working with marginalized girls across five local government in Lagos State, Epe, Ojo, Alimosho, Koshofe and Shomolu in Bariga local government area, the project is supported by Mercy Corps, lead implementing partner in Nigeria. Speaking more on the level of impact the initiative was doing in the lives of the child girl, she stated that:“Why we can’t quantify the success stories of ENGINE II programme as some of our girls have gone up to further their education; some are doing well in businesses and some are also retraining other girls; “However, the challenges remained that some of these girls still have to struggle to fend for themselves. This coupled with some of the expectations of society on the female child that see some families prioritize income earning for the girls more than them learning. This is one of the reasons for the awareness of community support system for our girls. “We therefore want the government to implement policies and programmes targeted at marginalized girls. Why because, one can work within the within school population, but out of school girls who are marginalized, locating them are difficult. And it takes specific effort and programming to make sure that these girls needs are been met. That is why we are saying that there has to be concerted effort to make sure that these girls’ life outcomes are improved. “She said. For Mercy Corps Monitoring and Evaluating Team representative, Tosin Alemere, the ENGINE II programme implemented by Mercy Corps aimed at supporting margined girls transition to the next level of education by improving their learning outcome social and economic standing. According to her, “One of the ways we support marginalized girls is by making them attend ENGINE centres where they are taught literacy, numeracy, and financial education and life skills. Aside that, we teach them various forms of protection skills to enable them understand the shades of abuses; tell if and when they have been abused and to enable them speak out.” For the Director of Agency for Mass Education, Lagos State, Mrs. Oluwakemi Kalesanwo who was represented by Mr Abiodun Oshideku who gave the keynote address reiterated that novelty match was aimed at educating and sensitizing people on gender violence, with focus on girls that are out of schools. His words, “ Some of them have this cultural attitude of keeping quit, so this program will sought of enable them to speak out, expose them on who to meet and solve such challenges when arises. Govt’s inaction has turned Rivers to killing field – Amnesty “In the area of literacy, our agency has been collaborating with Mercy Corps in providing centers, learning spaces for them through Lagos SUBEB and through districts in our primary and secondary Schools. And we have been providing technical assistance. Vanguard A non governmental organisation, NGO, the Educating Nigerian Girls in New Enterprise, ENGINE, program has concluded arrangements to organise a 1,000 men walk aimed to raise awareness and drive to end violence against women and girls. November 29, 2016 In "News" The Country Director of Rise Up in Nigeria, Mrs. Theresa Effa has said that the organizations Gender Equity Initiative, GEI, was strictly to empower and improve the lives of Nigerian women and girls challenged by gender inequality occasioned by cultural and religious beliefs. September 28, 2019 In "Health" ABUJA — A global humanitarian agency, Mercy Corps, has gone into partnership with the National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, to implement a project tagged: “Educating Nigerian Girls in New Enterprises (ENGINE)” February 20, 2015 In "News"