Acclaimed Pastor of Solution Salvation Chapel, a white garment church in Ikoyi-Ile area of Osun State, who was arrested over the murder of Favour Daley-Oladele, a final student of the Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, has revealed that he is a herbalist and not a prophet as he earlier declared. He explained that he used the church as a cover-up for his activities in order to attract ‘customers’ who would ordinarily not want to be associated with herbalists. Recall that 22-year-old Favour, left her parents ‘ Mowe abode on December 8, 2019, informing that she was going to school but made a detour to Osun State, where her remains were later traced to a shallow grave inside a well, by the Police in Ogun State, two weeks later. Her boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi, 23, his mother Mrs Bola Ruth Adeeko and Philip were subsequently arrested over the incident.
During the investigation, Adeeko and the prophet revealed how the unsuspecting student was lured to the den and killed. Philip had told the police that he used the lady’s heart to prepare concoction for Owolabi and his mother. However, after the case was transferred to the Osun State Police Command, detectives of the Homicide section led by the command boss, CP Babatunde Kokumo, who visited the well to exhume the corpse, Saturday, discovered that aside the heart, some parts of the body were missing. They included the neck, two breasts and parts of the legs. During interrogation Philip, revealed that the two breasts were used to prepare soap for Mrs Adeeko to bath with. The soap according to him was a charm for a favour. Vanguard As suspects give gory details on the murder Suspected killers of Miss Favour Daley-Oladele on Saturday narrated the gory details of how the final year Sociology student of Lagos State University (LASU) was gruesomely murdered for money rituals at Ikoyi-Ile in Osun. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that… January 4, 2020 In "News" By Evelyn Usman Fresh facts have emerged on how Favour Daley-Oladele, a final year student of the Lagos State University, LASU Ojoo, who went missing on December 8, 2019, was killed. This followed a startling revelation of how her boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi, allegedly connived with a self-acclaimed pastor to kill… December 29, 2019 In "Metro" She had high hope for the future and had looked forward to completing her first degree at the Lagos State University, LASU, Ojo. In fact she was said to have started making preparation towards getting a temporary job upon completing her studies, pending when she would proceed for the mandatory… January 4, 2020 In "Crime Guard"