CANDIDATE of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Senator Christopher Ekpenyong has again defeated Senator Godswill Akpabio of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the January 25, 2020 re-run election for Akwa Ibom Northwest Senatorial district held in Essien Udim local government Council. Senator Ekpenyong of the PDP polled a total of 134, 717 votes, while Akpabio scored a total of 83, 820 votes. INEC Returning Officers, Professor Idara Okon Akpabio announced the House of Representatives result, Professor Robert Dode announced the result for Senate election Re-run while Prof Victor Ebong announced the State Assembly result However, the scores indicate that senator Akpabio who is currently the minister of Niger Delta Affairs won Ekpenyong only in his own ward, Ukana West ward2 with a total of 762 votes while Ekpenyong scored a total of 620 votes. And for the House of Representatives seat, Nsikak Ekong of the PDP won with a total of 45, 366 votes while Emman Akpan of APC scored a total of 22,759. Similarly for the State Assembly Re-run poll, Esse Umoh of the PDP won with a total of 18, 999 polls while Nse Ntuen of the APC scored 7,108. Ekpenyong while reacting to the outcome of the Re-run while fielding questions from newsmen shortly after being declared winner of the Rerun election by the Independent National Electoral Commission Returning officer described his victory as an ‘Act of God’ “I thank God the giver of victory for seeing me through the entire political debacle since September 2018. My victory has put agents of darkness to shame.” The successful candidates are just waiting for the formal declaration of the results by the Resident Electoral Commissioner.  THE Appeal Court  ruling in Calabar, penultimate Saturday, which ordered re-run poll in Essien Udim local government area within 90 days in respect of the Akwa Ibom North-West Senatorial seat has dominated discussions in Akwa Ibom polity. November 29, 2019 In "News" ***Urges APC to send his replacement to INEC By Henry Umoru - Abuja Ahead of the rerun election in Essien Udim Local Government Area, North West Senatorial District in Akwa Ibom State, former Minority Leader of the Senate and Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio has written to… December 11, 2019 In "Politics" The incumbent, Senator Chris Ekpenyong maintains that he is not perturbed by the ruling and assured his supporters to remain calm while a date for the election is fixed. November 10, 2019 In "News"