The Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) under the umbrella of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Saturday urged Nigerians and lovers of democracy to rise to the defence of democratic institutions, especially the judiciary. The Chairman of the Forum, Abubakar Bagudu, made the call in a statement in Abuja. He described as depressing, a statement credited to the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Uche Secondus, proclaiming the Supreme Court judgment on Imo governorship election as a  “miscarriage of justice.” Bagudu also condemned Secondu’s claims that the judiciary was “heavily compromised” and had “lost credibility” over the verdict. The Kebbi governor said: “These are depressing allegations coming from supposedly democratic leaders who should ordinarily be in the forefront of protecting and defending the judicial institution as the sanctuary of our democracy. “It is contemptuous and disrespectful to our democracy. “This is most unfortunate and condemnable, we call on Nigerians and all lovers of democracy in the country to rise to the defence of our democratic institutions, especially the judiciary. “We must prevail on the PDP leadership and all politicians to exercise restraint by demonstrating unalloyed loyalty and respect for our democratic institutions, particularly our judiciary, which is the most important pillar of democratic governance. “To allege that a judgement delivered by Supreme Court judges is procured simply because it does not favour the PDP is an invitation to anarchy.” (NAN)  Vanguard   The Progressives Governors Forum (PGF)  under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has called on Nigerians and lovers of democracy to rise to the defense of democratic institutions, especially the judiciary. The call was contained in a statement issued by its Chairman,  Gov. Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi, in… January 18, 2020 In "News" Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode on Friday congratulated his counterparts in Ekiti, Dr. Kayode Fayemi and Kebbi State, Alhaji Atiku Bagudu on their emergence as Chairmen of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF) respectively. May 24, 2019 In "News" The Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), comprising all state governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), at their meeting, which held 9.00 pm on Thursday, May 23, 2019 at Imo State Government Lodge, Asokoro, Abuja, has unanimously elected Kebbi State Governor HE Atiku Bagudu as Chairman of… May 24, 2019 In "News"