An Egyptian court on Monday sentenced eight people to life in prison after they were convicted of joining a local affiliate of the Islamic State group spearheading an insurgency in Egypt’s Sinai Peninsula. The Cairo Criminal Court gave 29 others sentences ranging from 15 to 1 year in prison. It also acquitted seven others, including a soccer player, in the same case. The verdict can be appealed. The court said the defendants were accused of forming and joining IS cells that were active in several provinces including the capital, Cairo, from 2015 to early 2018. It said the defendants were also accused of plotting attacks on the country’s Christian minority and their churches, assaulting security forces and disrupting public order through attacking public institutions. In a separate case, the court also referred the case of three defendants facing terrorism charges to the country’s top religious authority, the Grand Mufti, for a non-binding opinion on whether they can be executed as the state’s prosecution seeks. It said the defendants are members of a militant group known as Hasm, which has targeted security forces. The group has been linked to the now-outlawed Muslim Brotherhood organization. The men are among 11 defendants accused of carrying out a militant attack in the Mediterranean city of Alexandria in March 2018. Two policemen were killed, and five other people were wounded in the explosion, which the government said was intended to assassinate the city’s police chief, Maj. Gen. Mostafa Al-Nemr. The verdict is set for March 31, and the presiding judge may rule independently of the Mufti. Egypt has for years been struggling to contain an Islamic insurgency spearheaded by a local affiliate of the extremist Islamic State group in northern Sinai. Attacks on the mainland have also occurred. The insurgency, however, gained strength after the 2013 military overthrow of a freely elected but divisive Brotherhood president. Since then, courts have held mass trials and sentenced hundreds of people to death. Rights groups have repeatedly criticized such mass sentencings in Egypt and called on authorities to ensure fair trials. Vanguard News Nigeria. [AP] Vanguard News Nigeria. An Egyptian court sentenced two Muslim Brotherhood supporters on Saturday to life in prison and 16 others to 15 years in jail for a violent assault on a Cairo neighborhood in 2013 after the ouster of former president Mohamed Mursi. October 29, 2016 In "News" An Egyptian military court Tuesday sentenced Muslim Brotherhood leader Mohamed Badie to 10 years in prison over deadly clashes following the 2013 ouster of Islamist president Mohamed Morsi, judicial officials said. December 22, 2015 In "News" Ahmed Mansour Karni, a 4-year old child, will be spending the rest of his life in prison following a court ruling in western Cairo on Tuesday. The little boy was convicted in absentia for several charges, including murder, reports Ventures Africa. February 19, 2016 In "News"