Suspected killers of Miss Favour Daley-Oladele on Saturday narrated the gory details of how the final year Sociology student of Lagos State University (LASU) was gruesomely murdered for money rituals at Ikoyi-Ile in Osun. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the three principal suspects gave the gory details after Osun homicide police detectives exhumed the victim’s dismembered body from a dry shallow well at Ikoyi-Ile. NAN reports that Babatunde Kokumo, Osun Commissioner of Police, led detectives from the Homicide Section of the command during the exhumation operation. When the remains were exhumed, the head, the two breasts, neck, and part of the two legs were no longer there. NAN recalls that the deceased was allegedly killed by a prophet, Segun Philip, 42, and her boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi, 22, in Ikoyi-Ile, Osun, on Dec. 8, for money rituals. Owolabi’s mother, Ruth was also said to have played a role in the dastardly act. Owolabi, also a graduate of LASU graduate, told newsmen during operation that he conspired with the prophet to murder her girlfriend for money rituals. According to him, he lured the deceased to Ikoyi-Ile and lodged her in a hotel before killing her. “After I lodged her in a guest house, I took her to a house which I claimed to be my uncle’s house, knowing fully well that the place was a ritualists den. ” I smashed a pistol on her head and she collapsed. “The prophet thereafter used a knife and cutlass to dismember her body which was divided into three parts breasts, head, and legs with other vital parts. “We buried the remaining part of her body beside Prophet Philip’s Church called ‘Solution Salvation Chapel’, while some vital parts were given to my mother to eat for spiritual cleansing,” he said. Also speaking with newsmen, Segun Philip, who claimed to be a prophet in Solution Salvation Chapel, said the deceased was murdered to make money rituals for Owolabi. “I am not a prophet but a herbalist who engages in spiritual cleansing for whosoever come to my place. “I used the Solution Salvation Chapel as a cover-up not to allow people to know the true picture of who I am and what I do. “Owolabi came to my place for money rituals and I told him that we need a complete human being for the rituals. “And on December 8, he brought his girlfriend to my church and we killed her and as well dismembered her body part for money rituals. Owolabi’s mother, Ruth, who also spoke with newsmen said she was not aware that the concoction was given to her to eat and the cream was made of human parts. The police commissioner said detectives carried out a thorough investigation to ascertain the actual place the deceased was buried.adding that the police would ensure that justice prevailed in the matter. The CP urged the people to be vigilant and always report any suspicious and unlawful act to the nearest police station for a quick response. vanguard By Evelyn Usman Fresh facts have emerged on how Favour Daley-Oladele, a final year student of the Lagos State University, LASU Ojoo, who went missing on December 8, 2019, was killed. This followed a startling revelation of how her boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi, allegedly connived with a self-acclaimed pastor to kill… December 29, 2019 In "Metro" Mr Olusegun Runsewe, the Director-General, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), has joined other Nigerians to condemn the alleged murder of a final-year student of the Lagos State University (LASU). The 400-level Favour Daley was allegedly murdered in cold blood by her supposed boyfriend along with a fake pastor.… December 31, 2019 In "News" By Adesina Wahab The management of the Lagos State University, LASU, Ojoo, Lagos has called for caution on the issue of the murder of a final year student of the institution, Miss Favour Dailey-Oladele, by suspected ritualists, urging the students to remain calm and allow security agents to do their… December 29, 2019 In "Education"