Iran hit out Tuesday at the “audacity” of United States to blame it for violent anti-US demonstrations in Iraq, warning the United States to review its policies in the region. “The surprising audacity of American officials is so much that after killing at least 25… and violating the country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, that now… they attribute the Iraqi people’s protest against their cruel acts to the Islamic Republic of Iran,” said foreign ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi. His statement came after US President Donald Trump accused Iran of killing an American civilian contractor and “orchestrating” the storming of the US embassy in Baghdad earlier on Tuesday. Mousavi said the claim was an insult to the people of Iraq. “How and based on what logic do you expect the nation of Iraq to be silent in the face of all these atrocities?” he asked. In response to rocket attacks that killed the contractor in northern Iraq, the US launched air strikes Sunday on an Iran-backed militant group that killed 25 people in western Iraq. “The Americans ignore the Iraqi nation’s liberty and drive for independence on one hand, and on the other forget their own role in supporting Saddam and Daesh,” Mousavi said, referring to former dictator Saddam Hussein and the Islamic State group. The statement rejected US charges against Iran, warned against any “reckless and wrong reaction” and urged the White House to “reconsider its destructive policies in the region”. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Iraq's government warned Monday that its relations with the United States were at risk after deadly American air strikes against a pro-Iran group sparked anger on the streets, with protesters torching US flags. Baghdad said it would summon the US ambassador while Washington responded by accusing Iraqi authorities of having… December 31, 2019 In "Foreign" United States (US) airstrikes against a pro-Iran group in Iraq killed at least 25 fighters, a paramilitary umbrella said Monday, triggering anger in a country caught up in mounting tensions between Tehran and Washington. The attacks on Sunday night saw US planes hit several bases belonging to the Hezbollah brigades,… December 30, 2019 In "Foreign" The Iranian government has revealed it has forwarded a list of Iranians it will be exchanging United States prisoners with, as the two countries prepare for a prisoner swap deal. Abbas Mousavi, an Iranian foreign ministry spokesman made the revelation while speaking to reporters on Monday. The U.S. however vaguely… October 22, 2019 In "Foreign"