NORTHERN CAN  Chairman, Rev Yakubu Pam has tasked the Federal government and security agencies to do all they can to ensure the traumatized Dapchi School girl Leah  Sharibu is rescued and reunited with her Family immediately either with a baby or not ad  demanded by her Parents. Pam in  a statement in Jos on Sunday  which was made available to newsmen in Jos, said  the news making the rounds that Leah had given birth to a baby boy for a Boko  Haram Commander came to the Northern Christian Community as a shock and should be investigated by the Federal Security agencies . He particularly called on President Buhari to verify this claim to authenticate the source of the story and if confirmed to be true, should do all that is within his power to negotiate the release of Leah without further delay from Boko haram  Den to be reunited with her parents. According to him, Leah remain a good and worthy Ambassador of Jesus Christ that  is being  persecuted  by Boko haram insurgents on account of her faith, insisting  that whatever might have happened to her in the cause  of her captivity in the Boko Haram  den in the last two  yeas, could have been under duress and brute force by the insurgents . ” Leah is not married to any Boko haram Commander as claimed by the insurgents” Pam stressed. Pam said the situation Miss Sharibu found herself in Boko Haram den is not what any Girl child could wish to experience in her life time or wish to happen to any other girl child from the Southern part of the country. The Northern Christian leader stressed that the Church in the North is still behind the position of Leah Parents whose demand at the moment is for the  release of  their daughter from Boko haram  den either with a baby or no baby born to a Boko haram Commander . Pam tasked Northern parents and religious leaders to bring up their children  and followers with the fear of the Lord in their hearts so that  these  don’t turn out  in the nearest future nuisance to the society  as being witness under the current ugly situation  in the North East of the Country . Northern CAN Chairman said to them in Northern Christian Community, Leah Sharibu remain a Christian girl that was kidnapped and not released at the same time with other kidnapped School girls on the ground of her Christian faith. Pam said Miss Sharibu at this stage of her life should be released to her parents without further delay to enable her go through trauma healing from the ugly experience she had gone through in the  last two years in the hands of her captors. He cautioned warned the insurgents to turn a new leaf from their wicked ways and seek for forgiveness  from God over the hardship they have caused many Vanguard Following the report that Boko Haram captive, Leah Sharibu has given birth to a baby boy in captivity, the Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN in the 19 Northern States and the FCT, Rev. Yakubu Pam has called on the Federal government and security agencies to do all they can… January 26, 2020 In "News" THE Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, in the 19 Northern states and Abuja, yesterday, again pleaded with the Federal Government to ensure the release of the only Dapchi schoolgirl, Leah Sharibu, who is spending nine month in captivity of  IS-backed Boko Haram led by Abu Musab al-Barnawi. November 20, 2018 In "News" The Dapchi schoolgirl who Boko Haram refused to release alongside her 104 kidnapped colleagues for not renouncing her Christianity is being hailed as a hero by the Nigerian Christian community. March 25, 2018 In "Headlines"