The Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Rev. Alfred Martins, on Wednesday urged the Federal Government to adequately motivate the military and other security agencies to crush the Boko Haram, Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) and other terror gangs holding the country to ransom. Martins, who spoke at the celebration of the 53rd World Day of Peace at the Holy Cross Cathedral, Lagos, also described as sad, unfortunate and barbaric, the Christmas Eve’s execution of 11 Christians abducted by ISWAP fighters in the North East. He urged the Federal Government to intensify its counter-offensive operations to crush the criminals and restore normalcy to all the affected areas. Martins said: “Therefore, I plead with the federal government to put more decisive measures in place to curb the lingering cases of insecurity in the country in 2020. “It is important that the security architecture of the nation be reviewed from time to time, even if it means changing personalities. “So, I want them to focus a lot more on security as well as do a lot more in providing the infrastructure necessary for growth.” Martin also advised leaders to listen more and engage more in dialogue with the people, to feel the kind of sentiments the people were expressing. “Leaders of any nation are going to get the best from the people, only if they listen to them and dialogue with them. “When there is an exchange of ideas and thoughts, then it is possible to really harness the energies that are within the nation. “If any leader is interested in the country or people, then such a leader needs to seek peace and seek dialogue, to achieve that peace,” the Catholic Archbishop added  Vanguard. THE Federal Government, yesterday, thumbed down former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s comments, weekend, that the Boko Haram insurgency has become an agenda to ‘Fulanise’ West Africa and Islamise Africa. May 22, 2019 In "Headlines" CATHOLIC Archbishop of Lagos, Most Rev. Alfred Adewale Martins has passionately appealed to the Federal Government to urgently address the lingering crisis in Southern Kaduna which have led to the loss of several lives and halt any further killing of Shiite Muslims in the country. October 31, 2018 In "News" By Luqman Bashir Before an international coalition routed the Islamic State (ISIS/Daesh) from Syria, the fanatical terrorists had wrongly assumed an aura of invincibility. They carried out daring attacks, intensified their barbarism and did everything possible to court international attention. That quest for international attention was perhaps partly responsible for… April 11, 2019 In "Viewpoint"