When Anita Joseph posted a luscious bathtub video on Friday on her Instagram page she knew people would pass all sorts of comments and she was ready for them. How 8yr old traumatised maid was rescued In the post she made it clear she would entertain any query of the picture, adding the only person who has the right to talk is her fiance, Fisayo Michael known as MC Fish. Well, the handsome MC has talked and it seems he isn’t all pleased with the near-pornographic video. “ I have no problem with her taking pictures but sometimes I want her to reduce taking this type of picture. I support her career and everything she does and as long as she’s doing the things upright it’s cool, but she should just reduce it,” he said in a chat with Potpourri The actress and the MC started dating last year and have expressed commitment to each other severally on the pages of newspapers and on social media. When asked in an interview with Potpourri recently if he’s not afraid of dating or settling down with an actress, he had this to say; “No, I’m not scared at all, I believe it’s not about what the person does, it’s who the person is. My woman fits all criteria. I understand it’s her job, so whenever she is acting, or doing love making thing on set, I will just sit back and watch my baby girl do her thing because I know she is acting, it’s not the real thing, it’s her job, we are both entertainers and we have understanding. AfDB approves $210m for Nigeria Transmission Expansion Project Anytime I watch her movies and she does the sexy things, I will say ‘babe you need to do that for me too,  we should try it tonight” so it’s usually like that, that is how I’ve been able to cope, and we are both happy. “ Vanguard Nollywood diva, Anita Joseph has done a lot of wild things in her illustrious career as an actress and singer but nothing holds a candle to the post she made on Friday on Instagram. January 5, 2020 In "Entertainment" She's the only special woman in my life – Fiance, MC Fish Ayo Onikoyi Feisty and fiery yet adorable Nollywood actress, Anita Joseph may have found lasting love at long last, if the confession of a trending hypeman and MC, MC Fish is anything worth its salt. The man, who… October 20, 2019 In "Entertainment" Stunning Nollywood actress and mother of one, Angela Okorie, has for long become a goldfish in the movie industry, that, it is almost impossible for her to duck into the shadows. So, it was no surprise when a story broke last week that she and her fast friend of many… August 6, 2017 In "Home Video People"