The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu after a long call for reaction on the Federal Government’s proclamation of Amotekun as being illegal, has said that most people in favour of the South West Security Outfit have the vaguest notion about it. Tinubu who was calling for a dialogue between the South-West Governors and the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Mallam Abubakar Malami said in a press statement that the foundation of the country had not been put at risk with the South-west regional security outfit launched by the governors of the zone in a bit to confront the insecurity in their states. “This is not the first. Nor will it be the last. We must devote our energies more toward solving problems rather than amplifying them.” Also attacking the people with the conviction that the Federal Government was trying to suppress the South West, Tinubu stated; “[they] have also lost their compass”. “Those claiming that the Federal Government seeks to terribly suppress the Southwest have also lost their compass. Those who occupy these two extremes have sunken into the dark recesses of fear and political paranoia that can undo a nation if such sentiments are allowed to gestate”. “Question those in favour of Amotekun. Most have but the vaguest notion about it. They know few details yet vigorously attribute to its opponents the most negative intentions,” Tinubu also condemned the actions of those against Amotekun saying; “Ask those who oppose Amotekun. They are equally ignorant of its provisions. They oppose the initiative not on its merits but merely because it was proposed by their political opponents or because they don’t see an avenue for personal gain from it,” Tinubu noted. Vanguard News Nigeria. ...Says Nigeria’s fabric not at risk with South West security Outfit The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has called for private discussion between the Governors of the South-west and the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Mallam Abubakar Malami, over Amotekun. He said the foundation of the… January 22, 2020 In "News" Save Lagos Group, a Southwest Association, out of curiosity has given the All Progressives Congress stalwart, Bola Tinubu, 24 hours to reveal his position on the Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed ‘Operation Amotekun’. Tinubu has remained silent on Amotekun since its launch and this has attracted many people… January 19, 2020 In "News" By Rotimi Ojomoyela Ado Ekiti — Immediate past Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State, Chief Jide Awe, has said the southwest region is destined for the next presidency, going by the silent principle of rotation. He said Southwest region will produce the party's candidate that will succeed… January 18, 2020 In "Politics"