A soldier at the Army Engineering Company, Ede, Osun State, identified as Olodi Blessed has killed a soldier after stabbing his wife and son. He was also said to have allegedly killed a neighbour, identified as Iya Ijesa, who sells vegetable. The soldier, according to resident close to the Barrack, recently returned from the war front in the North-East for a course but returned to his original unit at Ede, instead of the front. Another source, however, disclosed that the soldier suffered mental illness at the war front and It relapsed around 10 pm on Thursday, leading to his action. According to a resident in the Barrack area, Adeoye the man stabbed his wife, son with a knife, as well as their a female neighbour. He was said to have later stabbed another soldier simply identified as Peter Afolayan, who attempted to wrestle the knife from him. Another resident, Bello Sheriff disclosed the military guy went haywire at night stabbing people and was eventually captured beside Alhaji Olohuntoyin house along barrack junction. Bello said, “The incident was unfortunate, we heard that the soldier suffered mental illness and the illness relapse at night.
He was stabbing people and unfortunately, two of his victims including Iya Ijesa and a soldier died. The soldier was eventually captured by some butchers who were returning from the market and was tied down for the military to arrest him.” Efforts to get a reaction from the Army spokesperson, Colonel Sagir Musa proved abortive, as he did not pick his call or respond to the message sent to him. Vanguard News Nigeria. He had just been made a Sergeant two months ago. And he had served the Nigeria Army for 19years. That was the once exciting life of Sergeant (Sgt) Emmanuel Stephen. All that gone like a candle light in the wind! Last Tuesday evening, a sombre, small crowd of mourners gathered… December 2, 2012 In "Periscope" There is palpable tension in Makurdi, Benue State,  following clashes between soldiers attached to the Nigerian Army School of Military Engineering NASME, and civilians leading to some people sustaining various degrees of injuries and destruction of property worth several millions of Naira. February 1, 2011 In "Headlines" THE annual ‘Isheri Day’ celebration was marred by tragedy on Monday, after two youths were allegedly killed by drunk soldiers suspected to be from Ikeja Cantonment, during an altercation that resulted in a fight, at Isheri Olofin area of Ogun State. August 15, 2019 In "Crime Alert"