The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has redeployed Mr Yusuf Philip Yila, the Managing Director, NIRSAL Microfinance Bank (NMFB), as Director, Development Finance Department. The redeployment of Mr Yila who was the Director of CBN before his appointment as MD, NIRSAL Microfinance Bank takes effect from today. Yila succeeds Dr. Mudashiru Olaitan who retires from the bank on January 26, 2020, having reached the statutory retirement age. Born on November 20, 1972, Yila, joined the services of the Central Bank of Nigeria in June 2011 from Oando Plc where he was General Manager Operations for the downstream business. He holds a Bachelors of Engineering Degree in Electrical/Electronics Engineering from the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO) and is an Alumnus of the prestigious Harvard Business School, Boston. The CBN management appointed Mr Abubakar Abdullahi Kure, as Director and Acting Managing Director of the NIRSAL Microfinance Bank Other movements announced by the management included the redeployment of Mr Kofo Salam-Alada from the Consumer Protection Department to the Legal Services Department as well as the movement of Mr Samuel Okojere from the Payment System Management to the Banking Services Department, to replace Mr Dipo Fatokun, who retired from the services of the Bank in December 2019. The CBN Management also approved the appointment of Mr Clement Buari as Director, Strategy Management Department; Haruna Mustafa, Director, Consumer Protection; Bello Hassan, Director, Other Financial Institutions’ Supervision Department; Dr Ozoemena Nnaji, Director, Trade and Exchange Department; and Mr Musa Itopa Jimoh as Director, Payment System Management. Vanguard News Nigeria. Towards its own efforts in addressing the needs of Nigerians in the rural areas and also deepen financial inclusion, African financial technology company, Inlaks, has been appointed as the implementation partner to host NIRSAL National MFB on the National Association of Microfinance Banks Unified IT, NAMBUIT, platform, which is deployed… January 30, 2019 In "Technology" The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Godwin Emefiele, has assured entrepreneurs set to commence operations at the Edo Production Centre, of the availability of favourable financing options through the apex bank’s NIRSAL National Microfinance Bank, to complement other incentives for industrial production at the facility. May 22, 2019 In "Business" NIGERIA is presently faced with the challenge of weak economic growth, which stood at 1.93 percent for 2018, and a huge population estimated at 201 million people. The impact of this challenge is reflected in the high unemployment figures, estimated at 23.1 percent, and the 86.9 million Nigerians living in extreme poverty. May 13, 2019 In "Business"