Princes William and Harry on Monday put on a rare united front to dismiss a “false story” speculating about their relationship, as senior royals meet for talks about the younger brother’s future. Harry and his wife Meghan caught the institution off guard last week when they announced their intention to step back from frontline royal duties. The 35-year-old former army officer has previously all but confirmed a rift with his older brother, prompting speculation as to the cause and that it may have influenced his decision to quit. William and Harry, also known by their formal titles the Duke of Cambridge and Duke of Sussex, issued a rare joint statement to condemn one report, without specifying the publication. “Despite clear denials, a false story ran in a UK newspaper today speculating about the relationship between The Duke of Sussex and The Duke of Cambridge,” it said. “For brothers who care so deeply about the issues surrounding mental health, the use of inflammatory language in this way is offensive and potentially harmful.” The Times cited an unnamed “insider” as saying Harry and Meghan felt they had been “pushed away by what they saw as a bullying attitude from the Duke of Cambridge”. But it also cautioned: “These claims have been strongly contested by sources close to the Cambridges, as well as some close to Prince Harry.” VANGUARD Queen Elizabeth II on Monday allowed her grandson Prince Harry and his wife Meghan to split their time between Canada and Britain during a "transition period" in which the family will figure out how to deal with their shock resignation from front-line royal duties. The monarch said she held "very… January 13, 2020 In "News" Britain's Prince Harry and his wife Meghan will step back as senior members of the royal family and spend more time in North America, the couple said in a shock announcement on Wednesday. The surprise news follows a turbulent year for the monarchy, with signs that the couple have increasingly… January 8, 2020 In "Foreign" Britain’s royal family was hurt and disappointed by the shock announcement by Prince Harry and his wife Meghan that they will step back from their senior roles and spend more time in North America, a royal source said. Harry and Meghan’s announcement, made on social media on Wednesday evening, took… January 9, 2020 In "Foreign"