Authorities of the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) on Friday disclosed, that some scores of Cadets have been withdrawn from the Academy and others demoted, having been found wanting in discipline and general conduct. The Academy Public Relations Officer, Major Abubakar Abdullahi confirmed the withdrawals to Vanguard but was silent on the number of Cadets involved. Major Abdullahi said that the relegation and withdrawal of the Cadets followed the conduct of the Academy’s periodic dossier on all cadets aimed to preserve discipline and improve general administration. He said the mission of the NDA was to provide each officer Cadet with the requisite knowledge, skills, and values necessary to meet the requirements of a military officer through military training, academic excellence and character development. Noting that the exercise is in line with the provisions of Cadets Hand Book on Discipline and General Administration 2018 (Revised) and Armed Forces Act CAP A20 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, he said the exercise was in line with the NDA’s commitment to produce quality and disciplined officers for the Nigerian Armed Forces. The statement reads, “The mission of the Nigerian Defence Academy’s (NDA) is to provide each officer cadet with the requisite knowledge, skills and values necessary to meet the requirements of a military officer through military training, academic excellence and character development. “Towards achieving this mandate, the NDA conducts periodic Dossier Review to address Cadets disciplinary cases. “The Exercise is in line with provisions of Cadets Hand Book on Discipline and General Administration 2018 (Revised) and Armed Forces Act CAP A20 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. “The recently concluded Dossier Review resulted in the relegation and withdrawal of some Cadets found wanting in discipline and general misconduct. “This is in line with the NDA continued demonstration of its commitment to produce quality officers for the Nigerian Armed Forces and to ensure discipline is preserved.”  CONTROVERSIES are currently trailing a recruitment exercise being carried out by the Nigerian Defence Academy,NDA, over the death of four Cadets who were recently enlisted into the institution for intensive military training exercises. November 5, 2016 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to attend the passing out of the Regular Course participants of the Nigeria Defence Academy (NDA) on Saturday in Kaduna, the institution said in a statement. October 3, 2018 In "News" BY CLIFFORD NDUJIHE, deputy political editor ...Says ’Biafra war consumed NDA first graduates’ ARGUABLY, Col Paul Osakpamwan  Ogbebor (rtd), 70, is the first Nigerian to be enrolled into the Nigerian Defence Academy, NDA. Among the 61 cadets of Course 1, he was one of the 34 that graduated. He is… October 21, 2012 In "Past Perfect"