Kobe Bryant reportedly died in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California, on Sunday morning. The 41-year-old former Los Angeles Lakers basketball star’s death was confirmed by TMZ. The outlet reported that Bryant was travelling with four other people in his private helicopter when it crashed, killing everyone on board. The legendary basketball player was said to be among at least four people travelling the helicopter over Calabasas when a fire broke out, sending the chopper spiralling from the sky, according to TMZ Sports. Vanessa, Kobe Bryant’s wife, was not among those aboard. The cause of the crash is under investigation. It is yet to be determined if the helicopter departed from or where it was headed when it went down. Bryant according to report has been using helicopter to travel ever since he was playing for lakers. He was known for commuting from Newport Beach, CA to the STAPLES Center in DTLA in his Sikorsky S-76 chopper. Bryant starred for two decades with the Los Angeles Lakers, winning five championships and making 18 All-Star Games before retiring after the 2016 season. Vanguard News Nigeria. NBA legend who played for Los Angeles Lakers, Kobe Bryant died Sunday in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California. The 41 years old was reported to have been travelling with four other people in his private helicopter when it crashed, killing everyone on board. TMZ has confirmed that his eldest daughter,… January 26, 2020 In "Sports" By Emmanuel Okogba You cannot be a true follower of the slam-dunk game and not know Kobe Bryant. The LA Lakers and basketball legend had a successful career that spanned two decades, making and breaking records in the process. On January 26, 2020, Bryant and four others were killed in… January 26, 2020 In "Sports" NBA legend Kobe Bryant died Sunday in a helicopter crash in suburban Los Angeles, celebrity website TMZ reported, in an accident confirmed by police that saw five people killed. Los Angeles County Sheriff's officials said there were no survivors from the morning crash on a hillside in Calabasas, west of… January 26, 2020 In "Sports"