Two-time Formula One world champion Fernando Alonso recorded his best result of the Dakar Rally on Monday, finishing second behind Frenchman Mathieu Serradori on stage eight. The stage was shrouded in mourning after the death on Sunday of Portuguese rider Paulo Goncalves. The motorbike and quadbike categories were cancelled for the stage, a 477km loop incorporating straight sections with several chains of dunes to test handling skills. “I’d like to dedicate this victory to Paulo because I’m a former biker,” said Serradori, an amateur who drives an SRT. “It’s not easy to get motivated after a day like that and my co-pilot Fabien was there as well. But there are two fighters in the car and I’m very happy with this result.” Serradori finished 4min 4sec ahead of Toyota’s Alonso, with Argentinean Mini driver Orlando Terranova in third, at 6:19. Alonso, who had finished four times in the top 10 without having made the podium in a stage, was quick to heap praise on his co-driver/navigator Marc Coma, a five-time Dakar champion on a motorbike. – Limited ambitions –
“Today we had an amazing day,” said Alonso. “We had one puncture unfortunately and we lost a little bit of momentum there, but otherwise the stage was nearly perfect and Marc was unbelievable, you know – the dunes, the navigation. In his first Dakar Alonso had limited ambitions ruled out winning a stage but now he believes it is within his grasp. “Initially I thought it was impossible,” he said. “But after today, obviously when you are second maybe there is a chance, so we will try.” He said not having motorbikes setting the route had upset the rhythm of the stage. “Having no bikes changed a lot, especially for the first two or three cars,” he said. “I benefitted from starting from the back… I’m happy to complete the day without any issues. It was a beautiful stage, quite fast with a lot of dunes, so it was good. I think the dunes are harder than tracks, but for whatever reason I feel more comfortable. VANGUARD Spanish driver Fernando Alonso is aiming to create history as the first Formula One world champion to win the Dakar Rally when the 12-day marathon gets underway in Saudi Arabia on Sunday. Alonso, who won the F1 championship with Renault in 2005 and 2006, is one of 351 starters in… January 3, 2020 In "News" Fernando Alonso hinted on Friday he is considering making a return to Formula One following an overhaul of the rules for the 2021 season. September 6, 2019 In "News" Portuguese motorbike rider Paulo Goncalves has died after a crash in the Dakar Rally on Sunday, the 40-year-old becoming the gruelling motorsport marathon's 25th fatality. Goncalves suffered the fatal accident after 276 kilometres of the seventh stage from Riyadh to Wadi ad-Dawasir. "The organisers received an alert at 10:08 (0708… January 12, 2020 In "Sports"