Amazon’s owner and the recent world richest man, Jeff Bezos was reportedly “hacked” in 2018 after receiving a WhatsApp message sent from the personal account of the crown prince of Saudi Arabia. The Guardian (UK) reported the encrypted message from the number used by Mohammed bin Salman contained a malicious file used in the phone infiltration. Bezos claimed that forensic digital analysis revealed that his phone intrusion was triggered by an infected video file sent from the Saudi heir. Large amounts of data were exfiltrated from Bezos’s phone within hours, according to a person familiar with the matter. There was currently no knowledge of what was taken from the phone or how it was used. The disclosure is likely to raise difficult questions for the kingdom about the circumstances around how US tabloid the National Enquirer came to publish intimate details about Bezos’s private life – including text messages – nine months later. It may also lead to renewed scrutiny about what the crown prince and his inner circle were doing in the months prior to the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, the Washington Post journalist who was killed in October 2018 – five months after the alleged “hack” of the newspaper’s owner. However, Saudi Arabia has denied it targeted Bezos’s phone and has insisted the murder of Khashoggi was the result of a “rogue operation”. In December, a Saudi court convicted eight people of involvement in the murder after a secret trial that was criticised as a sham by human rights experts. Digital forensic experts started examining Bezos’s phone following the publication last January by the National Enquirer of intimate details about his private life. When the British newspaper contacted Bezos’ lawyer, the reply was: “I have no comment on this except to say that Mr Bezos is cooperating with investigations.” Vanguard News Nigeria. The Saudi embassy in United States on Tuesday dismissed suggestions the kingdom hacked the phone of Washington Post owner Jeff Bezos, as media reports linked the security breach to a WhatsApp message from an account of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. The 2018 intrusion into the device led to the… January 22, 2020 In "Foreign" Amazon chief Jeff Bezos's phone was likely infected by spyware hidden in a message from Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman, according to an analysis released Wednesday, prompting calls for an official investigation. A forensic analysis by technical experts retained by Bezos after a leak of his personal information in… January 22, 2020 In "Foreign" Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and world’s richest man,  on Thursday accused the publisher of the National Enquirer of blackmail after it threatened to publish intimate photographs sent by the billionaire to his mistress if he did not cease his investigation into how the newspaper got the pictures. February 8, 2019 In "News"