Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp has revealed how he’d solve the ongoing issues surrounding VAR, with Aston Villa falling victim to another controversial decision on New Year’s Day. Video assistant referees were introduced at the start of the 2019-20 campaign in an attempt to ease the pressure on officials and take human error out of the equation when clear and obvious errors have occurred. However, the technology has stolen headlines for all the wrong reasons, with marginal offside calls proving to be a source of major frustration for managers and supporters across the Premier League. Villa midfielder Jack Grealish has been at the centre of the latest perceived injustice, with his 12th-minute strike against Burnley ruled out due to Wesley’s heel being millimetres ahead of the last defender during the build-up. After another controversial incident, there was plenty of reaction on social media. Klopp has seen Liverpool involved in their fair share of similar incidents, and he is in favour of a change which would see the attacker given the benefit of any doubt in tight situations. The German boss told a press conference: “We had a manager meeting with UEFA and it was decided to make the line bigger [wider]. I would like that. “I don’t know who would decide that. That it doesn’t take so long until a decision would also be better. “It’s not the biggest problem in the world. We want to have clarification and right decisions, offside we get that now, the only problem is it feels like half an hour until the toenail is offside. But that’s the decision.” Klopp was speaking ahead of Liverpool’s clash with newly promoted Sheffield United at Anfield on Thursday, where his side will be looking to extend their 36-match unbeaten run. The Reds have won their last 10 in the Premier League, and have only dropped points in one of their 19 fixtures this season. Liverpool have stormed 13 points clear of their rivals at the top of the table, despite having been forced to negotiate their way through a hectic winter schedule which included a Club World Cup venture in Qatar. A 1-0 home win over Wolves on Sunday marked their latest triumph, with Klopp fully focused on keeping the squad as fresh as possible as the fixture list continues to pile up. He added: “Four days is a proper recovery so that’s okay but after that, there’s another game. It isn’t just about rhythm, we don’t have massive alternatives in all positions, some will have to go again and hopefully, they can. “But the players are all in good shape, so I’m happy about that. But it’s not always easy to make the right decisions.” Source: Goal.com Vanguard News Mike Riley, general manager of the Professional Game Match Officials Limited (PGMOL), the body responsible for the country's leading referees, will meet with the top-flight's northern-based managers after sharing views with southern bosses last week. The meetings had been planned months ago but following the latest VAR controversies, managers on… November 5, 2019 In "Sports" Some of the best European coaches participated in UEFA's Elite Coaches Forum on Monday, with the VAR being one of the main points of discussion. ALSO READ: Spanish record goalscorer David Villa announces his retirement Zinedine Zidane, who was the only LaLiga Santander representative, joined Pep Guardiola, Jurgen Klopp, Carlo Ancelotti,… November 13, 2019 In "Sports" Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp has once more criticised the Nations League, comparing the tournament to watching opera every night or having world heavyweight champion Anthony Joshua box week in week out. October 19, 2018 In "Sports"