Police officers in Lesotho are appealing for help to trace Prime Minister Thomas Thabane’s current wife who they want to question over the 2017 murder of his then-estranged wife. Maesaiah Thabane has not been charged, but police want to speak to her about Lipolelo Thabane’s killing, a government spokesman told journalists on Tuesday. The prime minister has also failed to answer police questions, he added. The couple had not yet commented on a case that has caused much intrigue in the Southern African nation. Lipolelo Thabane was shot dead two days before Mr. Thabane was sworn in as prime minister of the mountain kingdom. The women were involved in a legal battle over who should be the first lady. The courts ruled in favour of Lipolelo Thabane, who was gunned down outside her home near the capital, Maseru. Mr. Thabane described his estranged wife’s killing as “senseless” in his inaugural speech as prime minister in June 2017. He was accompanied to the ceremony by Maesaiah Thabane. A priest married the couple about two months later at a public ceremony at a stadium in the capital, Maseru. The prime minister and Lipolelo Thabane were involved in a bitter divorce battle at the time of her murder. (BBC)  Vanguard A Lesotho court has issued an arrest warrant for the prime minister's wife after she failed to turn up for questioning over the 2017 murder of his previous wife, police said Saturday. The announcement came just days after senior officials in the ruling party called for Prime Minister Thomas Thabane… January 11, 2020 In "Foreign" Lesotho’s prime minister Pakalitha Mosisili has conceded defeat in a parliamentary election to his opponent Thomas Thabane, the government said, easing concerns of political instability in the mountain kingdom. June 9, 2017 In "News" Lesotho Prime Minister Tom Thabane on Saturday said he had fled for his life across the border to South Africa, accusing the military of seizing power in a coup and leaving the country in flux. August 30, 2014 In "News"