Imo State Police Command has warned those planning to publicly protest the sacking of Chief Emeka Ihedioha and installation of Senator Hope Uzodinma as Imo State Governor, by the Supreme Court, that it would not tolerate violence or hijacking of the process by hoodlums. The command gave the warning in a press statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Mr Orlando Ikeokwu, and made available to newsmen in Owerri. “The Command wish to state in clear terms that it is the right of every individual or group to protest about any issue of grieve, but such protest must be carried out in accordance to the provisions of the laws, as the protest must not be violent, nor hijacked by hoodlums and used as a tool for looting, chaos and anarchy or conducted in a manner likely to cause breach of the public peace”, the PPRO said. The Command also warned that: “The Command in conjunction with all security agencies in the state, is determined to protect the lives and properties of all and sundry, as such anyone or group that insights (sic), instigates, procures violence nor conduct itself in a manner likely to cause breach of peace, will be arrested and made to face the wrath of the law.” Ikeokwu then advised members of the public to “go about their lawful business without fear of molestation, as arrangements are in place, to ensure safety and security of all and sundry”. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Chinonso Alozie, Owerri The Imo state Police command Saturday warned any person or groups that intended to protest against the Supreme Court judgment regarding the Imo governorship election, not to disrupt the existing peace in Imo state. The police through the State Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Orlando Ikeokwu,… January 18, 2020 In "News" The police in Imo State has warned against the hijacking of the Peoples Democratic Party nationwide protest on Sunday, noting that it would decisively deal with anybody who hijacks the protest. The police spokesperson in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, in a statement said that the protesting PDP members must ensure… January 18, 2020 In "News" By Chidi Nkwopara Angry reactions have started trailing the botched forceful takeover last Monday, of the 27 local government councils in Imo State, by suspended chairmen and councillors believed to be loyalists of Chief Rochas Okorocha. Some respondents, including an Owerri based legal practitioner, Mr. Alex Williams, described the act… January 7, 2020 In "News"