Members of different political parties in Imo state are said to have expanded their lobbying strategy to get appointments in the new government of Hope Uzodinma. Also, Vanguard gathered in Owerri, that governor Uzodinma has made his first appointments with the Secretary to the State Government, SSG, now Cosmas Iwu. While Mr Oguike Nwachukwu, is now the Chief Press Secretary to the governor. It was gathered that more appointments are likely to be announced soonest adding that the governor has said that he would be fast in his policies and programmes in order to deliver on time. However, appointment seekers have intensified lobbying to ensure that they would not be left out in the governance process. A source told Vanguard, that Uzodinma, said he would concentrate on capacity to deliver his plan of rebuilding, reconstruction and recovery agenda of his government. He said: “This is an opportunity for the governor to prove his quality and I believe not because I am supporting him but I have seen his preparedness to change the state to better. “He will do different things with the purpose of improving the economy of the state and creating jobs opportunity for the people of the state. “And again, I advise citizens of the state to pray for him and do well with their prayers things will work well again in Imo state.” He added: “A lot of people who have nothing to offer have started crowding the government house to see if they can get any appointment. Let me tell you, Uzodinma I know will disappoint them because he needs people that will do the job.” Vanguard News Nigeria. WHEN the euphoria of his swearing-in dies down Governor Hope Uzodinma will be faced with critical challenges in Imo State. Some of them are daunting and need immediate attention. The challenges include: addressing the issue of decayed and decaying infrastructure particularly roads, paying the new minimum wage, controversies over payment… January 17, 2020 In "Politics" The immediate past governor of Imo State, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, yesterday, said he does not agree with the Supreme Court judgment that made Senator Hope Uzodinma governor of the state. January 16, 2020 In "News" The South East Women and Youths rally of the All Progressives Congress (APC) may have come and gone but the incidents that played out at the Dan Anyiam stadium Owerri last Saturday where several persons sustained gunshot injuries are still very fresh on the lips of Imo citizens. The occasion… January 19, 2019 In "News"