A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory sitting at Gwagwalada, on Thursday, granted bail to the immediate past Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Adoke, SAN, to the tune of N50million with one surety in like sum. The court, in a ruling that was delivered by Justice Abubakar Idris, lso admitted Adoke’s co-defendants- Aliyu Abubakar and Rasky Gbinigie- to bail pending the determination of corruption allegations against them. While it gave the 2nd defendant, Abubakar bail in the sum of N50m, it granted the 3rd defendant, Gbinijie bail in the sum of N10m. It maintained that the sureties must be responsible citizens that must depose affidavits of means. It said the sureties must be resident within the jurisdiction of the court and must own verifiable landed properties worth the bail sum. The court further ordered the sureties to tender their three years tax clearance certificates, even as it seized international passports of all the defendants, warning them not to travel out of the country without permission. It held that the defendants must sign a written undertaking not to interfere with any of the prosecution witnesses and to make themselves available for trial at all times. Justice Kutigi warned that breach of any of the conditions would warrant automatic revocation of the defendants’ bail. He dismissed a counter-affidavit the EFCC filed to oppose the release of the defendants on bail. Vanguard News Nigeria. ...says he was involved in P&ID, Halliburton scandals ...as vacation Judge returns case-file to CJ By Ikechukwu Nnochiri The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Tuesday, adduced reasons why the immediate past Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Adoke (SAN), should be allowed to remain in… January 1, 2020 In "News" By Soni Daniel Former Attorney General of the Federation, Mohammed Adoke, appeared to have taken ill barely three days in the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission in Abuja. A source close to the investigation confirmed to Vanguard that as part of the efforts by the anti-graft agency… December 22, 2019 In "News" Soni Daniel - Abuja A Federal Capital Territory High Court on Thursday extended the detention of a former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Adoke, by another 14 days. Justice A. O. Musa granted the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) request to detain the ex-minister after… January 2, 2020 In "News"