Opposition leader Umaro Sissoco Embalo has won presidential elections in the volatile West African state of Guinea-Bissau, picking up 53.55 per cent of votes, the National Electoral Commission (CNE) announced Wednesday. His rival Domingos Simoes Pereira, head of the country’s historic ruling party PAIGC, took 46.45 percent in Sunday’s runoff. “I declare Umaro Sissoco Embalo to be the winner of this second round,” CNE President Jose Pedro Sambu said. Embalo takes over as Guinea-Bissau president from Jose Mario Vaz who came to power in 2014 on hopes of stabilising a country notorious for coups and assassinations since gaining independence from Portugal in 1974. But his tenure was hampered by a paralysing faceoff with parliament under the country’s semi-presidential political system. The CNE put turnout at 72.67 per cent, virtually identical to the first round of voting on November 24, which Pereira won with 40.1 per cent against 28 per cent for Embalo. Embalo, 47, is a reserve brigadier general who favours wearing a red-and-white Arab keffiyeh headdress. Like Pereira, he is also a former prime minister, serving under Vaz between 2016 and 2018, before representing Madem, a party formed by PAIGC rebels. He fought to overcome his first-round vote deficit by portraying himself as a unifier of the country and by gaining the backing of eliminated candidates, including Vaz. Vanguard News Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari has given the assurance that Nigeria will remain committed to ensure that Guinea Bissau did not relapse into crisis. December 28, 2016 In "News" Guinea-Bissau citizens return to poll on Sunday to decide their president with the hope of ending months of political turmoil in the coup-prone West African state that is one of the world's poorest nations. Some 700,000 registered voters have a choice between two former prime ministers -- Domingos Simoes Pereira,… December 29, 2019 In "Foreign" President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday assured that as the Chairman of ECOWAS Contact Group on Guinea Bissau, he would do his best to ensure that the country did not relapse into crisis. December 28, 2016 In "News"