The African Development Bank (AfDB) has appealed to International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank to work out a financial support system for Nigeria and other west African countries which economies were threatened by insecurity. The AfDB President, Dr Akinwumi Adesina made the appeal while unveiling the African Economic Outlook 2020 in Abidjan on Thursday. Adesina explained that such financial support system was necessary to help address these exogenous security shocks, which if left unaddressed, would have broader spill over effects that would lower growth and investment in the region. “We must also address issues of insecurity. Growth in West Africa, which improved as Nigeria’s economy recovered from recession, has been dampened by the rising insecurity challenges. “In the Sahel. Several countries in West Africa, such as Niger, Mali, Burkina Faso and Chad are spending a very high share of their budgets on security. “I wish to commend the ECOWAS Heads of State and Governments for their bold decision to set up a fund to help address these insecurity issues in the sub-region” he said. Adesina noted that African countries could not continue to reel from one emergency to another. According to him, AfDB has used its Africa Disaster Risk Insurance Facility to pay for insurance premiums for countries facing extreme weather events that have helped to provide 36 million dollars in payout to countries. He added that It was time now for the international community to help scale up this facility to reach many more countries.  Dr Akinwumi Adesina, the President African Development Bank (AfDB) says Nigeria has all it takes to be “a power house in food and agriculture” on the African continent. June 16, 2019 In "News" Dr Akinwumi Adesina, Nigeria’s immediate past Minister of Agriculture, is the President of African Development Bank (AfDB). In this interview, Adesina speaks on the AfDB’s moves to help the continent eradicate poverty and position Africa as an industrial and economic giant. July 3, 2016 In "Interview" Nigeria’s outgoing Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina was yesterday elected as the new President of the African Development Bank (AfDB) at the bank’s Annual General Meeting in Abidjan, Cote D’Ívoire. May 29, 2015 In "Business"