Erstwhile National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has distanced himself from insinuations that he was surreptitiously plotting a return to office in the wake of a court case instituted against the Gov. Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee. A member of the defunct Oshiomhole-led NWC, Hilliard Eta had last week approached the Federal High Court to invalidate the appointment of the Buni committee on the grounds that it is unknown to the APC constitution. However, in a statement on Monday night, Oshiomhole said his position has not changed and that even if he was invited by the National Executive Committee NEC of the party to return to his seat, he would humbly decline such an offer. The statement reads; “In reporting the legal action taken by a member of the dissolved National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), some attributions have been made to the effect that plaintiff is an “ally of Oshiomhole” or an “associate of Oshiomhole.” the court documents are clear on who is the plaintiff. “For the avoidance of doubt, the 21-member NWC under my leadership largely worked cohesively and harmoniously. The only exceptions were those of the three members used by forces desperate to take control of the party. They contrived a crisis and abused the judicial process to undermine the constitution and integrity of the party.
The majority of 18 members worked as a team and not as allies or loyalists of anybody. “When the National Executive Committee (NEC) in its wisdom dissolved the NWC, I immediately announced publicly that I accepted the decision, regardless of its illegality or otherwise, as it affected my position as national chairman. “I was the only one at the press conference where I made the announcement for personal reasons. The reason, of course, was that some of my colleagues in the dissolved NWC obviously didn’t share my position not to contest the dissolution in court. I can only accept responsibility for my own decision. “Subsequently, I instructed my lawyers to withdraw the suits challenging my purported suspension from office by the proxies of those bent on removing me as chairman. “It is, therefore, the height of mischief to insinuate, as it is being done in some quarters, that I would publicly accept the decision and later surreptitiously seek to contest it in court. That chapter of my political life is closed. Even if another NEC decision or a court order reverses the dissolution, with utmost humility I will decline to return as APC chairman.
I am proud of the accomplishments of the NWC under my leadership and I am grateful to the principled 18 members who worked as a team committed to the cause of the party. “Above all, I bear no grudges against anyone for the manner of my removal.
Instead, I am grateful and loyal to President Muhammadu Buhari who encouraged me to contest the chairmanship of the party. “I am also very much appreciative of the support of President Buhari who encouraged me to assert the authority of the party without fear or favour.
Indeed, I would not have lasted as long as I did as national chairman but for the Presidents and support for me. I will continue to support his administration to succeed in serving the common good  of the people of Nigeria”. Vanguard News Nigeria Three governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, are set to lead the charge against some of their colleagues who have continued to strategize on how to unseat the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. March 9, 2020 In "News" THE Court of Appeal  sitting in Abuja, yesterday, gave the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, a life line to remain as leader of the party, as it ordered stay of execution of the Abuja High Court ruling that suspended him as the national chairman… March 17, 2020 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja State Chairmen of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC in Yobe and Kogi states have denied reports alleging that the Forum of APC State Chairmen along with some members of the National Executive Committee NEC had called for the sack of the party's National Chairman, Comrade… November 24, 2019 In "News"