Governor Nyesom Wike on Sunday hinted on locking down Rivers state in January next year amidst a resurgence of COVID-19 in the state in the wake of a second wave. Wike, giving the hint in Port Harcourt, expressed as worrisome the refusal by most churches and markets in the state to comply with wearing of face mask and other established protocols against the spread of the pandemic. He said, “Go to some churches, go to markets, they don’t wear masks. They believe COVID is not real. It’s not real because it has not happened to you. When somebody close to you has died, you will know COVID is real. “It is real and I appeal to all that we have to be more strict now because the second wave is more dangerous than the first, very, very dangerous. I know how many people we have lost since the second wave started. “If people won’t comply, I have no choice, but to shutdown the churches. No choice because when you have it, who spends the money? It is the state that treats. We need the money for some other things, and not for Covid-19. So, let’s discipline ourselves. Vanguard News Nigeria By Davies Iheamnachor Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has hinted that he would re-impose COVID-19 lockdown in the state beginning from January following the recent upsurge in the number of coronavirus cases in the State. Wike according to a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri,… December 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" * 2 children of late infected Covid-19 now infected after threatened lawsuit * Face mask now compulsory in Rivers * Gov places caveat on Rivers compliance with FG reopening of country to business By Egufe Yafugborhi PORT HARCOURT - GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike on Friday disclosed that the Rivers State Government… May 2, 2020 In "News" By Egufe Yafugborhi PORT HARCOURT - GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike on Friday disclosed that the Rivers State Government has commenced documentation to sue Federal Government for “unilateral” withdrawal of N11Billion from the Federation Accounts for the Nigerian Police. Wike, during update briefing on the state of Rivers battle with Covid-19 and… May 2, 2020 In "News"