PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has been told to use the occasion of his 78 birthday, to seek forgiveness for the sins he committed against the people of the Southwest Nigeria, rather than going about celebrating in the midst of his own people, whose over 300 children are being held captive by terrorists. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Southwest, which congratulated the President for reaching the age of 78 in a statement made available to Vanguard yesterday, said God must have kept him so that he could have enough time to ruminate over his past misdeeds and seek restitution. In the statement by the party’s Zonal Director of Media and Publicity, Lere Olayinka, President Buhari was reminded how as Military Head of State, he frustrated the progress of the the Southwest, abandoned the region when he was Chairman of the Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF), under late General Sani Abacha and has done nothing for the region since 2015. The Southwest PDP, said one of President Buhari’s major disservice to the people of the zone was the cancellation of the Lagos Metroline project embarked upon by the government of Alhaji Lateef Jakande, adding that: “The Metroline project was scrapped by Buhari at a loss of over $78 million to the Lagos tax payers. If Buhari had not cancelled that project, transportation in Lagos would have been better than it is now.” The party said further: “Today, we thank God for taking our President this far and congratulate him for attaining 78 years.” “However, it is expected that Mr President will be honest enough to see today as an opportunity to seek forgiveness for his sins, especially the ones he committed against the people of the Southwest.” “It is on record that in 1984, he impounded the international passport of the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and prevented him from visiting his doctors at Mayo Clinic, Rochester Minnesota, USA. The passport was only returned to him with courtesies by General Ibrahim Babangida in 1985. It was however too late as Awolowo died in 1987!” “It is also on record that with President Buhari’s directive, Chief Olabisi Onabanjo was abducted by military men while recuperating from a surgical operation at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital. He was sent to Bauchi prison.” “President Buhari sent our notable leaders like Onabanjo, Jakande, Chief Michael Ajasin, Bola Ige, Chief Bisi Akande and others to jail for committing no offense other than showing commitment to the development of the region and welfare of the people.” “Curiously, in April this year, when he was granting state pardon to those he sent to jail as military Head of State, the President did not remember to extend this pardon to Chief Bisi Akande, despite being his party man and one of those who ensured his electoral victory in 2015 and 2019.” “Therefore, Mr President, as you celebrate your 78 birthday, take heed to this wise counsel and seek forgiveness from the Almighty Allah (Subhanahu wa ta’ala) and the people you have caused untold sufferings, especially those in the South-West,” the Southwest PDP urged. Vanguard News Nigeria It was not too long ago just a whispering campaign by some Igbo Buharists that the quickest way to achieve the dream of enthroning a Nigerian president from the Southeast was to ensure President Muhammadu Buhari returns for a second term April 13, 2018 In "News" THE 2011 presidential contest was, last night, enveloped in a game of intrigues over possible alliances by opposition parties against the incumbent, President Goodluck Jonathan of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. March 30, 2011 In "News" THE Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, is said to be in palpable shock over progressing schemes by the Action Congress of Nigeria, ACN, and allied opposition political parties to get the upper hand of it in the forthcoming polls in the Southwest April 7, 2011 In "News"