The Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, yesterday asked Nigerians to be grateful that his principal’s fight against insecurity has reduced daily attacks on Nigerians. Speaking on Sunday while appearing on Channels Television’s Sunday Politics programme, Mr Adesina opined that: “There could be five, six bombings in one day. Now, you can have two, three months with no single case of bombing. Let’s be thankful for small mercies. Any mercies we receive, let’s be thankful for it, and let’s not dwell on negatives alone.” When asked if Buhari is winning the war against insecurity, the outspoken Femi answered, ‘Yes’. His words: “Yes, there are times, a week, two weeks even a month that you don’t have all these things happening. There was a time in the immediate past when they happened daily several times. You talked of one bombing within three or four days. There was a time in this country when bombs went off like firecrackers every day. “There could be five, six bombings in one day. Now, you can have two, three months with no single case of bombing. Let’s be thankful for small mercies. Any mercies we receive, let’s be thankful for it, and let’s not dwell on negatives alone. “Life is taking the rough and smooth together. So, sometimes we see when things go on for days, for weeks with no negative developments, let us emphasise those ones. We have challenges but these are not the constants in the country. “Patience must be elastic, it’s not something that you get to a point and say patience has run out. Patience must be a continuous thing. There are certain things in which you don’t have control of all the variables. “If you don’t have all the variables, you don’t then begin to give timelines. And security is not one of those things that you will give a timeline to say by this time to this time, we will achieve this. “All over the world, security is a continuous thing and even the most advanced countries are still working at it,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria Former media aide to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Mr Reno Omokri, has berated President Muhammadu Burari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media, Femi Adesina, for being economical with the truth in his recent interview with a private television station. January 28, 2020 In "News" Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, has said President Muhammadu Buhari would win the next elections, if he contested it, despite the contention of some Nigerians that the present government has not lived up to expectation. April 4, 2017 In "News" By Femi Adesina It was very sad and doleful to hear of the eventual beheading of Rev Lawan Andimi, Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Michika Local Government, Adamawa State. He had been abducted by terrorists earlier this month . I felt the killing of Andimi very keenly, not… January 24, 2020 In "Viewpoint"