Financial Times, an international business newspaper, Tuesday described Nigeria as a nation that has the highest number of poor people living with less than $1.90 a day. The paper equally stated that Nigeria is on the brink of becoming a failed state, following the spate of kidnappings, killings, insecurity and violation of human rights. The international business newspaper, stated conspicuously that the government has lost control of the country. Giving perceived solution to Nigeria’s problem, Financial Times said: “President Muhammadu Buhari must seek to draw a line in the sand. He must redouble efforts to get a grip on security. He also needs to restore trust in key institutions, among them the judiciary, the security services and the electoral commission, which will preside over the 2023 elections. Read the full Editorial below: “More than 300 Nigerian schoolboys were reunited with their families last weekend, days after they had been abducted by kidnappers from their dormitory in the country’s north-west. The kidnapping revived memories of the 276 Chibok schoolgirls abducted in Borno state in 2014. Just as then, Boko Haram, the militant Islamist group, claimed responsibility. “The government insists no ransom was paid. Scepticism is warranted. In a country going backwards economically, carjacking, kidnapping and banditry are among Nigeria’s rare growth industries. Just as the boys were going home, Nigerian pirates abducted six Ukrainian sailors off the coast. “The definition of a failed state is one where the government is no longer in control. By this yardstick, Africa’s most populous country is teetering on the brink. “President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 pronounced Boko Haram “technically defeated”. That has proved fanciful. Boko Haram has remained an ever-present threat. If the latest kidnapping turns out to be its work, it would mark the spread of the terrorist group from its north-eastern base. “Even if the mass abduction was carried out by “ordinary” bandits — as now looks possible — it underlines the fact of chronic criminality and violence. Deadly clashes between herders and settled farmers have spread to most parts of Nigeria. In the oil-rich, but impoverished, Delta region, extortion through the sabotage of pipelines is legendary. “Extortion is a potent symbol for a state whose modus operandi is the extraction of oil revenue from central coffers to pay for a bloated, ruinously inefficient, political elite. Security is not the only area where the state is failing. “Nigeria has more poor people, defined as those living on less than $1.90 a day, than any other country, including India. In non-Covid-19 years, one of every five children in the world out of school lives in Nigeria, many of them girls. “The population, already above 200m, is growing at a breakneck 3.2 per cent a year. The economy has stalled since 2015 and real living standards are declining. “This year, the economy will shrink 4 per cent after Covid-19 dealt a further blow to oil prices. In any case, as the world turns greener, the elite’s scramble for oil revenue will become a game of diminishing returns. The country desperately needs to put its finances, propped up by foreign borrowing, on a sounder footing. “In its three remaining years, the government of Mr Buhari must seek to draw a line in the sand. It must redouble efforts to get a grip on security. It also needs to restore trust in key institutions, among them the judiciary, the security services and the electoral commission, which will preside over the 2023 elections. “More than that, Nigeria needs a generational shift. The broad coalition that found political expression this year in the EndSARS movement against police brutality provides a shard of optimism. “At least Nigeria has a relatively stable democracy. Now Nigeria’s youth — creative, entrepreneurial and less tainted by the politics of extraction — should use that system to reset the country’s narrative. “A new, slimmed-down state — ideally one with fewer, bankrupt regional assemblies — must concentrate on the basics: security, health, education, power and roads. With those public goods in place, Nigeria’s young people are more than capable of turning the country round. “At the present trajectory, the population will double to 400m by 2050. If nothing is done, long before then, Nigeria will become a problem far too big for the world to ignore.” Vanguard News Nigeria …Global statistics expected to reach 150 million by 2021- World Bank …Govt must give support to organised business to strive, flourish; tackle insecurity — Economists, Analysts …Improving ease of business will attract investment — Experts By Peter Egwuatu There are indications that Nigeria's poverty level may have further deteriorated as… October 12, 2020 In "Business" By Ikechukwu Amaechi Nigerians: WHEN the discourse is on Muhammadu Buhari and the state of affairs in Nigeria under his watch, opinions are sharply divided along ethnic and religious lines. My write-up last week on “What will be Buhari’s legacy?” expectedly elicited such strong responses. The president is a very… February 6, 2020 In "Totally Real with Ikechukwu Amaechi" In June this year, there was a report where Nigeria replaced India as the country with the largest number of extremely poor people in the world, that is, 87 million Nigerians living on less than $1.90 a day. Last week the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation released a report reinforcing… September 29, 2018 In "Marriage and Family"