 “That as the media is evolving because of digital intrusion, the Association may need to at the Executive Council take another at the situation and respond as appropriate. “It reflects vigorously on the absence of paper culture on the newspaper industry in particular and the Nigerian economy in general. “It urges the Federal Government to make a conscious effort to revive the newsprint factories in Nigeria towards improving the health of the newspaper business and paper industry.” The association lamented what it described as “steady encroachment” on freedom of the press and free speech, “especially by state actors and urge resistance through all legitimate means to any infringement on press freedom and free speech.  Likewise, the NPAN holds that the right to protest is a fundamental human right that must be guaranteed by the Nigerian state in such  a way as to stave off violence.” It also added that “the NPAN in particular, pays deserving attention to media education in Nigeria and support the Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ) to achieve the stated objective for its establishment, including an upgrade to a degree awarding media training institution in the future. “That the Federal Government rise up to its responsibilities of protecting of life and property by stamping out terrorism, banditry, kidnapping . “That the Federal Government revs its response to the COVID-19 pandemic by making aggressive effort to procure the vaccines from whatever sources as may be available  and vaccinate our citizens against the deadly disease.” Vanguard News Nigeria  The Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria, NPAN, yesterday asked the federal government to make conscious effort to revive the newsprint factories in Nigeria to improve the health of the newspaper business and paper industry. It also in the interim, appealed to government to take the newspaper business as educational venture… December 9, 2020 In "News" The Newspaper Proprietors' Association of Nigeria (NPAN), Thursday, reiterated its commitment to the fight against corruption in the country ,insisting that it had always been in the vanguard of the fight and that it was not ready to stop now. February 4, 2016 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari, on Friday, in Abuja, met with members of the Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria (NPAN) where they discussed crucial national issues. May 27, 2016 In "News"