On Saturday, December 12th, 2020, 25 years after it was originally created and produced by the French brewing company Fischer Brewery, the world’s first tequila-flavoured beer, Desperados finally launched in Nigeria with style. Sold in over 86 countries, Desperados is a product of Nigeria’s leading brewer, Nigerian Breweries Plc, a Heineken Operating company, well known for highly successful brands such as Tiger, Star Lager, Amstel Malta, Heineken, Maltina, Gulder and others. With 5.9% alcohol by volume, Desperados is a tequila-flavoured pale lager beer. As part of the lead-up to the exclusive unveil event at the EbonyLife Place, Victoria Island, Lagos, the brand took a tour of Lagos bringing excitement to Nigerians in a custom-made party truck symbolically representing the party culture Desperados is synonymously known for across the world. This distinctive brand has become an international success, disrupting the traditional party spirit and unleashing wild experiments around the world. In a statement at the launch event, the Marketing Director, Nigerian Breweries, Emmanuel Oriakhi said, “Desperados is a brand that expresses an unconventional and daring outlook on life which resonates with the energetic and vibrant young Nigerians.” “With Desperados we aim to challenge the norm. We will also seek to create a community, a nation of tribes, to unify people. The aim is to build a trybe that celebrates a collection of individual personalities with unique attributes, held together by the purpose of being ready to explore and experiment with new worlds and experiences. It is not just a beer, but a way of life, seeking to inspire the ones who are made to be different,” he added. With a target of young Nigerians who are “Made To Be Different”, and who desperately need to express themselves in ways that reflect their personal brand values, Desperados aims to push the boundaries of wild experimentation reflecting its daring heritage. Speaking on the distinctiveness of Desperados and plans for the brand in Nigeria, Portfolio Manager, Nigerian Breweries Plc., Sarah Agha stated, “Desperados across the world is a big hit and today we continue with the same attitude defined by its creators – the relentless commitment to difference and obligation to experiment by continuing to play our own game and essentially making Desperados a beloved brand for young Nigerians. We are ready to enhance not the party experience in Nigeria but the beer experience and inspire our audience to be more daring with Desperados.” Bringing together an eclectic blend of young Nigerians, Desperados, famous for challenging party norms, is set to become the life of the party, as the most iconic beer beverage for this generation. With the launch of Desperados in Nigeria, daring beer lovers are definitely in for a great time. Desperados is already available for sale at retail stores nationwide. Vanguard News Nigeria Desperados, the world’s first tequila flavoured beer was launched in Nigeria on December 12, 2020, with an exclusive party held at EbonyLife Place, Victoria Island, Lagos. This once-in-a-lifetime experience attracted a handful of partygoers who relished the sweet contrasting taste of fiery tequila and icy beer in one bottle. The… December 13, 2020 In "Entertainment" Heineken premium beer is the great beer brand that has made its way around the world. The Dutch lager was first brewed by the Heineken family in 1864 when Adriaan Heineken convinced his mother that there would be fewer problems with alcoholism in Holland if the Dutch could be induced… May 29, 2016 In "Business" Nigerian Breweries Plc. (NB Plc.), a Heineken company and Nigeria’s largest brewer has announced the signing of award winning Nigerian rapper and entertainer, Phyno as the new Brand Ambassador for the leading South-east premium beer brand, Life Continental Lager Beer. June 7, 2018 In "News"