There were indications that the sealing of the office of Seplat Petroleum by a court order was a collateral damage to the petroleum firm in a fall out of the failed loan agreement between Access Bank Plc and Cardinal Drilling Services Limited. Vanguard  learnt that the loan agreement had subjected the oil rig assets of Cardinal to a takeover in the event of its failure to liquidate the loan it obtained from the bank. Consequently, given the importance of the Cardinal’s oil rigs to Seplat’s operations, Seplat had to support discussions between Cardinal and Access Bank to resolve Cardinal’s indebtedness against following Access Bank’s threat of foreclosure on the rigs. It was learnt that Seplat did not make any commitment to the bank in connection with Cardinal’s indebtedness, except the support to the settlement discussions in order to retain Seplat’s continued use of the Cardinal’s rigs in ongoing operations. However, following Cardinal’s increasing indebtedness and failure to pay the agreed settlement, the bank began to bring Seplat into its remedial action against Cardinal. But Cardinal,  Vanguard  learnt, had also told the bank that it was discussing with Seplat on possible funding support. Clause 6 of the Deed of Debenture allows Access Bank to appoint a Receiver/Manager over Cardinal’s assets if Cardinal fails to liquidate the loan. On 13th November 2020, Access Bank filed a Court action against Seplat, Cardinal, a Seplat Director and a Cardinal Director as “defendants”. Access Bank asked the Court to validate the appointment of Kunle Ogunba & Associates as the Receiver/Manager, validate the Receiver/Manager’s authority to take possession of the four Cardinal Rigs and other assets of persons and companies  connected to Cardinal drilling, restrain all defendants from disposing or dealing with the assets, declare that the defendants have no right to enter into, or deal with, any of the assets. Though Seplat’s office was sealed without prior notice, sources close to the firm also said that sealing the office was a violation of the rights of the owner and other tenants of the building who were prevented from accessing the building when they are not part of the litigation. Seplat is one of the tenants in the building. Gain recorded by two oil and gas firms, Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc and Caverton Offshore Support Group Plc last week resulted in N9 billion increase in investors’ wealth. October 17, 2016 In "Business" After 36 days of Shell's Trans Forcados Pipeline (TFP) shutdown in the first quarter of the year and seven days in April which affected Seplat Petroleum Development Company's oil and gas production, the firm says production has resumed at projected rates. May 22, 2014 In "News" IN furtherance of moves aimed at boosting its operations and ensuring the prompt evacuation of its hydrocarbon Seplat Petroleum Development Company has concluded plans to invest the sum of 15 million dollars in its operations on OML’s 4, 38 and 41. February 7, 2012 In "Sweet Crude"