No fewer than 5000 police personnel have been deployed in Bayelsa State for the West and Central senatorial by-elections holding today Saturday to maintain peace before, during and after the election. The west senatorial district is made up of Sagbama and Ekeremor Local Government Area while the central senatorial district has Southern Ijaw, Yenagoa, and Kolokuma/Opokuma local government areas. Accordingly, the state police command has ordered the restriction of movements in the affected local governments during the exercise. The state Commissioner of Police, Mike Okoli disclosed this on Friday in Yenagoa while addressing newsmen on the preparedness of the command to ensure hitch exercise in the affecting affected senatorial districts. He, however, assured that students writing the ongoing West Africa Examination Council (WAEC) examination would not be affected by the restriction of movement. His words, “the deployment of police personnel started since yesterday (Thursday) you know the terrain of Bayelsa is riverine. “Most of them are moving through speed boats, gunboats and private hired commercial boats to far places like Southern Ijaw, Ekeremor, Sagbama and all those areas are riverine. We have done adequate preparations to cover all the polling units. “We are deploying 5000 personnel, out of that 5000, we have 10 police mobile units to cover the election, they will support the personnel at the polling units from distance, the unarmed men will be at the polling units. “There will be a vehicular restriction from 0600 hours to 1400 hours when the exercise will be over. However, WAEC candidates will be allowed to pass through to write their examination. “My appeal to the people of Bayelsa State is to give peace a chance and make sure they conduct themselves peacefully.” Vanguard News Nigeria THE off cycle governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states, were, yesterday, marred by violence, vote-buying, snatching of voting materials and logistics challenges and late arrival of electoral materials, leaving sad tales on the lips of some stakeholders. November 17, 2019 In "News" THE forthcoming senatorial election in Bayelsa State may be full of upsets and surprises as leading opposition parties – the Labour Party (LP) and the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) are poised to break the PDP dominance in the predominantly riverine state. March 14, 2011 In "Politics" As Gov Diri constitutes prerogative of mercy committee  By Samuel Oyadongha - Yenagoa Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has directed the Commissioner for Health to take over the medical bills and treatment of the victims of shooting by police personnel in the Etegwe/Edepie axis of the state capital, Yenagoa.… November 27, 2020 In "News"