The Military Joint Task Force, JTF, yesterday, invaded Bolou-Tubegbe community in Burutu Local Government Area of Delta State, reportedly in search of kidnappers. Men of the 222 Battalion, Bomadi, Delta State, who carried out the joint operation, were reported to have burnt down houses in search of kidnappers, with sporadic shootings. Reacting to the incident, the Egbesu priest of Esuku Kingdom, King Para Ekiyes, said: “As I’m talking to you, several houses have been burnt down in my community. “All community folks, young and old, have fled into the forest for safety with many people sustaining various degrees of injuries. “This invasion is condemnable. How can you attack a community, burn down houses because you are looking for kidnappers?” Contacted, the JTF Commander, Bomadi, Capt. Dominic said: “It’s a normal routine anti-bunkering and sea piracy operation jointly carried out by the army and naval personnel from Warri. It’s a joint operation. “There are a lot of kidnappings in that area; there are a lot of bad reports coming from that community. As such, we conducted an operation based on intelligence and information. “I’m yet to get details from my men in the operation regarding the reported burning down of houses in the community.” Vanguard News Nigeria IJAW youth under the auspices of the Indigenous People of Niger Delta, IPND, on Monday raised the alarm over alleged invasion of Ajurakurama community, Egbema Kingdom in Ovia South Local Government Area of Edo State by the Nigerian Army under the Joint Task Force, JTF, in the Niger Delta region. October 17, 2017 In "News" HUNDREDS of villagers, yesterday, fled Ndoro community, Ekeremor Local Government Area, Bayelsa State, following the massive deployment of soldiers and military hardware in the area over the alleged killing of an undisclosed number of soldiers by a notorious militant leader and kidnapper, Kareowei. January 10, 2018 In "Metro" By Samuel Oyadongha, Yenagoa Indigenes of Ayakoroma community residing in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State have called on the federal government to institute an independent judicial commission of inquiry on the massacre and the sacking of their ancestral home by the nation special security forces the Joint Taskforce JTF in pursuit of… December 13, 2010 In "News"