Tony Elumelu, Chairman, United Bank for Africa (UBA) & Founder, Tony Elumelu Foundation, alongside the President of Estonia and the President of Rwanda, is set to speak at the European Union, EU, conference starting from today on various issues such as education, food security, job security, vulnerable populations, health and wellness, financial services and among others. The conference tagged “EU:Africa – The Post Crisis Journey Hackathon” has been scheduled    to hold virtually. According to a statement, nearly 2000 persons from 93 countries have suggested about 700 ideas to solve social and economic problems in Africa along the 11 tracks of the hackathon. All EU countries are represented among the participants and just a few African countries are missing. 293 applicants entered the hackathon from Nigeria; Estonia has the largest number among EU applications with 77. According to the statement, “During the matchmaking sessions 315 teams were selected to go ahead and build solutions at the 72-hour hackathon that will kick off this Thursday, 10th December. The top ideas can be checked out here. Food security is the most popular topic among the applications. The organizer of the hackathon, Mari Hanikat of Garage48 said: “We have received many inspiring stories of participants who have overcome personal hardship and reinvented their own destinies while contributing to their communities. We are thrilled to empower these people by bringing together intercontinental teams under the guidance of our brilliant mentors.” President of Estonia Kersti Kaljulaid will be joined in the opening panel on Thursday, 10th December at 17 (GMT + 2) by the President of Rwanda Paul Kagame and Tony Elumelu- Chairman, United Bank for Africa (UBA) & Founder, Tony Elumelu Foundation. Dr. Amani Abou-Zeid, Commissioner for Infrastructure and Energy at the African Union Commission will give an opening address as well as Urmas Reinsalu, Estonian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Lacina Koné, Director General of Smart Africa Secretariat and Aya Chebbi, AU Youth Envoy. The immediate past Group Managing Director/CEO, United Bank for Africa(UBA) Plc, Mr. Tony Elumelu has stated that capital is not a major problem to trade among African countries. October 12, 2010 In "Business" The President of Senegal, Macky Sall; President of Liberia, George Weah and United States Senator Chris Coons will form part of a high-level leadership panel of a conference to be moderated by the Chairman, United Bank for Africa, UBA, Plc, Tony Elumelu. May 24, 2020 In "News" By Christian Agadibe Tuesday 21st of May witnessed the commemoration of the Africa day; the event was put together by the United Bank for Africa (UBA). The theme was dubbed “Africa’s history redefined; our past, a path to the future." The Del-York Creative Academy was invited to the epoch-making event,… May 27, 2019 In "News"