That Nasir Ahmad  El-Rufai, the Governor of Kaduna State, dreams big, and  is focused, audacious, is gross understatement. Just as the word impossible, has obviously never been a deterrent in the execution of his numerous ambitious programmes and daring unpredictable moves, rather it is the adrenaline rush that propels his strategic actions and the secret behind  many of his astounding successes, be it the breathtaking Kaduna, Zaria, Kafanchan urban renewal projects, the 150 million dollars Olams Integrated Feeds and Hatchery or the first ever Kaduna Marathon, that was so effortlessly pulled off. For El-Rufai the word “impossibility”,  simply means exploring options,  meticulous planning, teamwork and  delegation of tasks, all which were on display during the highly successful Kaduna marathon. The huge success of the marathon has created doubts that it is  the first time the state has ever hosted an event of such magnitude. The 2020 Kaduna Marathon,was not a brainwave, it’s part of a comprehensive policy of making Kaduna State, the business investment destination and food basket of Northern Nigeria, as contained in the Kaduna State Development Plan 2016-2020 and the El-Rufai’s administration putting people first agenda, that has  “improved quality of lives for Kaduna State citizens”, at its philosophical foundation. The slogan, delivering on jobs, growth and prosperity”, encapsulates the legal and moral obligation of the government, to provide an enabling environment for its citizens to exploit. This explains its foray into the multi-billion dollars marathon industry, the determination to ensure that a slice of  the huge money gets to its citizens, a point the governor emphasized during the unveiling of the marathon. Kenyan Eliud Kipchoge the first runner to break the two – hour barrier in marathon is worth over 2.29 million pounds, from a mouth watering sponsorship deal with Nike worth millions of dollars,in addition to earnings from races. If everything works according to plan, and a Kaduna citizen is able to earn a million dollars, the impact, the multiplier effect can better be imagined. It’s  important to mention,that Kaduna State before the coming of El-Rufai, had lost about 70% of its economic activities, due to a combination of factors, but especially the lack of vision. The enthusiastic ambition of  the Kaduna State Government to put the state and Nigeria invariably  on the marathon map, as an  annual event like the Boston Marathon, the oldest  annual marathon, ahead of early starters like South Africa, Uganda, before the Arabs with their deep pockets, who have already dominated other elite sports like football and golf turn their attention to marathon is clearly understandable. The Kaduna State Government deserves all the accolades that are being heaped on it, for organizing the marathon in what is an extraordinary year of the COVID-19, when much older events couldn’t hold. To further appreciate the Kaduna feat, it’s  important to observe   that countries like Kenya and Ethiopia, though producers of  champions, are conspicuously missing from hosts of the over 800 marathons held yearly throughout the world. It’s equally very  remarkable that the Kaduna Marathon in its very first year, has been listed by the World Athletics Federation  as a permanent feature in its sporting calendar, a testament to the power of dreams. Other states, would have dipped hands into state resources to fund the marathon, but certainly not Kaduna State with its business-minded governor. It’s thus not surprising that the Kaduna Marathon, was wholly sponsored by the private sector and from the registration fees of  the over 5,000 athletes that participated. The private sector funding shows the several possibilities that can be achieved when the government and the private sector collaborates in a mutually beneficial manner, the point El-Rufai continues to make that the private sector remains  the driver for employment creation. For the Kaduna state government, the Kaduna Marathon, is not all about races, hence the aggressive marketing of its several tourism sites and events, like the famous  Zazzau Durbar, Tuk- Ham celebration, the Matsirga Falls etc, all in a bid to empower the people, who are at the very heart  of  the El-Rufai government policies. The Kaduna Marathon, like many other El-Rufai’s projects is an integral part of a very comprehensive  interrelationships, part of a whole, such that the massive urban renewal projects are built around the marathon, the tourism potentials, same with the shopping malls and new hotels, that will cater for visitors The newly created   Ministry of Sports Development, charged with the mandate of sports revival, discovery and naturing of raw talents that abound in the state into world class athletes, in what clearly signifies El- Rufai’s aspirations to replicate in athletics, the tremendous achievement of the state in football. Kaduna State has produced  the likes of Daniel Amokachi, Dahiru Sadi, Garba Lawal, Rashidi Yekeni Ayo Ogunlano , Victor Moses and several other world  renowned stars. In the near future, Kaduna State would definitely be making waves due to its  strategy of focusing on sports  like hockey, long distance races, handball, volleyball etc that it has comparative advantage, a very pragmatic approach, that is not only realistic, but cost saving and result assured. The Kaduna State Government has every right to beat its chest for its several accomplishments. According to El- Rufai,  “Today’s main 21km race and the 5km and 10km races have helped   advance   the   goals   set   out   for   the   Kaduna   Marathon.Designed as a half-marathon, the Kaduna Marathon is designed as an annual   sporting   event,   creating   options   for   talent development,   drawing   mass   participation,   inviting   visitors to the state and creating economic benefits. A major objective is to promote social interaction and advance unity in the state” The expectations for the second edition is exceedingly high, considering how successful the  very first edition was. Thankfully Kabir Mato, the Kaduna State Sports Commissioner , whose ministry the responsibility is anchored, understands this fact and has commenced preparations, side by side with the post mortem. vanguardngr …says he has already registered …Race to gulp N300 million By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Governor Nasiru Ahmad El-Rufa'i of Kaduna state has said that he had already registered to participate in the forthcoming Kaduna International Marathon and  would not do more than 5km. He spoke in Kaduna on Saturday, saying the… September 19, 2020 In "News" By Ibrahim HassanWuyo The maiden 21 km Kaduna Half marathon ended successfully on Saturday with Kenyan athletes, John Muirurri Mburu and Caren Jebet Maiyo winning. John who told journalists that it was a good race, said the weather in Kaduna was good and had made the race easier. Meanwhile,the Kaduna… November 21, 2020 In "News" Former President Olusegun Obasanjo made a surprise visit to governor Nasir El Rufai Wednesday where he hailed his former minister of Federal Capital Territory for constituting a pan-Nigerian cabinet. In a statement made available to journalists, the Senior Special Assistant to Governor Nasir El Rufai on media and Publicity, Ibrahim… December 11, 2019 In "News"