Former England coach and West Bromwich Albion manager Sam Allardyce has cautioned Arsenal that their status as a Premier League club is at stake if the Gunners do not turnaround their miserable PL campaign. Arsenal shockingly find themselves in 15th place on the premier league log, securing 14 points from 14 games played. With their last win in the league being a 1-0 win over Manchester United on November 1 Following a 4-1 Carabao Cup semi-final loss to Manchester City on Tuesday, falling to eight defeats 14 league games, Allardyce has admitted that Arsenal have to be considered as genuine relegation rivals, alongside West Brom due to their string of poor results. Allardyce said: “If they are in the bottom eight at the moment, yes. Absolutely,” Allardyce said when asked whether he believed Arsenal should be seen as potential relegation candidates. “Getting beaten again [Tuesday] night – even though it is not in the league – as it does with our players, drains the confidence of Arsenal’s players. Of course, it will. “They will be wondering what’s hit them, they will be wondering why they are down there. They will be wondering what it’s going to take to get out of that position. I know what it takes, I hope I can convince the players to respond to what I say on what it takes to get out of it. “I hope that we can push at Arsenal when they play us because they have a lack of confidence, and try and beat them or anybody in the bottom eight.” Arsenal will square off against West Brom on January 2, 2021, a fixture the baggies boss has labelled a relegation six-pointer. But before then, Arsenal welcome Chelsea to the Emirates for the boxing day clash, while West Brom faces a daunting trip to face league champions, Liverpool at Anfield, who are on a sixty-six game unbeaten streak at Anfield. Vanguard News Nigeria West Brom manager Sam Allardyce on Wednesday taunted old rivals Arsenal by claiming the struggling Gunners are in danger of relegation. Arsenal are languishing in 15th place in the Premier League after their worst start to a league season since 1974-75. Mikel Arteta's team are just four points above the… December 23, 2020 In "Sports" Gabriel Jesus's return has come at a good time for Manchester City as they seek to move closer to Champions League qualification by beating Crystal Palace at home on Saturday. May 5, 2017 In "Sports" Liverpool will host city rivals Everton for the second time inside a month when they face-off in the third round of the FA Cup in early January after the draw was made on Monday. December 5, 2017 In "News"