President Muhammadu Buhari has said the country is grateful to Governor Bello Masari of Katsina State, the military and security agencies for the safe return of the schooboys kidnapped from their Katsina boarding school. Buhari said this a tweet, where he alo appealed to Nigerians for patience in the face of security, economic and corruption challenges. The President tweeted: “I welcome the release of the kidnapped students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara. “This is a huge relief to the entire country and international community. The entire country is grateful to Governor Masari, the intelligence agencies, the military and the Police. “Our administration is fully aware of the responsibility we have to protect the lives and properties of all Nigerians. “I ask Nigerians to be patient and fair to us as we deal with the challenges of security, the economy, and corruption. We will not relent.” Meanwhile, aide to President Muhammadu Buhari on New Media, Bashir Ahmad, said some people are not happy over the release of hundreds of schoolboys abducted from Kankara secondary school. Shortly after the release of the boys was announced, Bashir tweeted: “When those boys were kidnapped, some people were clearly happy, and now are also clearly not happy with their rescue. Nigeria will always win.” The President’s aide also called the leader of the Boko Haram terror group a terrible liar: “Abubakar Shekau is just a terrible liar. “Though his supporters will definitely disagree and defend him, it’s fact; he is a liar, a terrible one.” That terrorist and murderer Abubakar Shekau is just a terrible liar, though his supporters will definitely disagree and defend him but it’s fact, he is a liar, a terrible one. — Bashir Ahmad (@BashirAhmaad) December 17, 2020  Vanguard News Nigeria By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has welcomed the release of kidnapped students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, Katsina State, describing their safe return as a big relief to their families, the entire country and international community. In a statement issued last night by the Senior Special… December 17, 2020 In "News" The United States (U.S.) on Thursday condemned the abduction of hundreds of children by gunmen from Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, Katsina State, on Dec. 11 and urged the government to hold those responsible accountable ” to the full extent of the law”. The U.S. Department of State condemned the… December 18, 2020 In "News" *17 students found, says Masari *More students appearing from the bushes-Masari's aide *We thought the bandits were policemen — escapee *Boko Haram claims responsibility for Kankara school kidnapping *Pay ransom, free our children from bandits - Grieving parent begs FG *PDP blasts FG over Kankara abduction *APC charges security agencies… December 16, 2020 In "News"