The Honourable Commissioner for Youth Political Participation, Pan-African Youth Union (PYU), Ambassador Oladele John Nihi has congratulated the people of Kogi State, and the newly elected 21 Local Government Chairmen in Kogi State particularly the Vice-Chairmen who are all females. The youth leader made this remark in a statement made available to our reporter, Saturday. While commending Governor Yahaya Bello for creating an enabling environment for the conduct of a free and fair election through the State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC) and for remaining neutral during the electoral process so as to ensure that democracy remained preserved in the state, he said; “Governor Yahaya Bello has once again made history in Nigeria Democracy as vice Chairmen to the 21 elected Local Government Chairmen are all women, and mostly youths. The Governor is not only youth sensitive but also a core gender-sensitive democrat who believes the inadequate representation of all strata, for efficiency and inclusiveness.” He added; “Judging from the large turn out of electorates, who came out enmass to cast their votes without any hindrances or violence, Kogi State is truly on the right path of true Democracy, and we can as well say that the people has really spoken and have elected their most preferred candidates.” The youth leader, however, admonished the newly elected officials to make dividends of democracy a priority in their respective Local Government Areas. In his closing remark, Nihi said Governor Yahaya Bello is reinstating hope for Nigeria Democracy, and gradually birthing the Nigeria we have all been dreaming of; where every citizen will have a voice, irrespective of ethnicity, family background, and most gender. Vanguard News Nigeria The Independent National Electoral Commission has declared the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Alh. Yahaya Bello as the winner of the Kogi governorship poll. December 6, 2015 In "News" The Honourable Commissioner for Youth and Political Participation, Pan-African Youth Union, Ambassador Oladele Nihi has commended Nigerian Youths particularly those who have been on the streets protesting against the activities of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad, a unit created by the Nigerian Police Force to deal with robbery. October 20, 2020 In "News" By Boluwaji Obahopo, Lokoja Speaker, Kogi State House of Assembly, Matthew Kolawole has said the youthful and energetic nature of governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State makes him the best option to fly the flag of the All Progressive Congress, APC in 2023 Presidential Election. Speaking with Newsmen in Lokoja… December 8, 2020 In "News"