THE Board of Union Bank Nigeria Plc has announced that its Chief Executive Officer, Emeka Emuwa, has communicated his decision to retire from the Bank on March 31, 2021. To this effect, the Board has also announced Emeka Okonkwo as his successor. Emuwa joined Union Bank in November 2012, following a $500 million investment by Union Global Partners; with a mandate to transform restore one of Nigeria’s oldest institutions back to its rightful position as a respected provider of financial services. According to a statement from the bank, “With his imminent departure, the Board has appointed Emeka Okonkwo, an Executive Director currently leading the Bank‘s Corporate Banking business, to succeed him. The appointment is subject to the approval of the Central Bank of Nigeria.” Commenting on his retirement, Emuwa said: “I have enjoyed the significant challenge of leading Union Bank over the last eight years. I am extremely proud of the management team and what we have been able to accomplish during my time as CEO. “Today, we have a strong bank that is well positioned to compete and deliver on its vision to be ‘Nigeria’s most trusted and reliable partner.’ With a clear strategic direction, a growing and loyal customer base and a strong brand, this is now the natural time for the next generation of leadership to take Union Bank forward and deliver further value. “In over three decades of banking, my time at Union Bank has been one of the richest experiences in a long and fulfilling career with a treasure of work and life lessons to carry into the future. Together as a team, we scaled many hurdles and accomplished significant feats and I would like to thank my Executive team, senior management and every one of our employees for their integrity, support and hard work that have brought Union Bank to where it is today. I would also like to thank the Board for the opportunity to lead this storied institution that has impacted generations of Nigerians for over a century and for supporting our efforts and vision during my tenure.” Group Managing Director of Union Bank Plc, Mr. Emeka Emuwa, has called for proactive strategies to tackle the rising problem of electronic fraud (e-fraud). October 6, 2014 In "Business" Union Bank of Nigeria Plc (Union Bank) has appointed Mr. Cyril Odu as Chairman of the Board of Directors following the resignation of previous Chairman, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, who was recently appointed Minister of Budget and National Planning by President Muhammadu Buhari. November 26, 2015 In "Business" As part of activities lined up to celebrate its centenary anniversary this year, Union Bank yesterday hosted its customers and other stakeholders in Rivers State to a classy dinner at the Novotel Hotel, Stadium Road, Port Harcourt. June 23, 2017 In "News"