Governor Udom Emmanuel has taken decisive steps to tackle pockets of insecurity in Akwa Ibom state ahead of the Christmas by donating 30 new utility vehicles to the security agencies for use in combating crime. The vehicles are the first batch of 100 patrol trucks earmarked for presentation to the security agencies. The Governor who also presided over the security council meeting attended by all service commanders in the state also approved the reactivation of a Joint Task Force in the state. He acknowledged reports of insecurity in parts of the state and promised to continue partnering security agencies for the safety of life and property of Akwa Ibom people. It could be recalled that last Sunday while worshipping at the Latter Day Chapel, Government House, Gov Emmanuel had promised to reposition security operations in the state, and to donate new patrol trucks to the agencies to ensure a smooth Christmas for all residents in the state. These vehicles were received on behalf of the service commanders by the State Commissioner of Police, Andrew Amiengheme. While appreciating the governor for providing the patrol vehicles, Mr Amiengheme assured citizens of maximum protection during the Christmas and beyond. He urged citizens to call the police emergency numbers when there is an incident and desist from publishing baseless and sensational reportage in the media. Vanguard News Nigeria The Akwa Ibom State Governor and Governorship candidate for Peoples Democratic Party, PDP Mr. Udom Gabriel Emmanuel, has presented a 8-point agenda manifesto with a promise to consolidate on the gains of his first term  while also reeling out his achievements in office so far. January 16, 2019 In "News" Governor Udom Emmanuel has advised the new Akwa Ibom State Commissioner of Police to carry out his duties with fairness without political and illegal interference, insisting that as Governor he will not encourage him on an illegal errand. Governor Emmanuel said on Tuesday, when the new Police Commissioner, Mr Amiengheme… September 1, 2020 In "News" I mentioned in the first part of this write-up that Mr Udom Gabriel Emmanuel brought his wealth of experience in corporate governance to lead Akwa Ibom State. His emergence effectively midwives a new order in public service delivery as could be seen in key sectors including education, health, security and… May 27, 2020 In "News"