Britain’s post-Brexit trade deal with the EU looks certain to be passed when parliament is recalled on December 30 after the main opposition Labour party said it would vote in favour despite misgivings. The speakers of both the lower and upper houses of parliament — the House of Commons and House of Lords —  confirmed they would convene rare sessions during the Christmas-New Year break, after Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the agreement had been clinched by UK and EU negotiators. The votes will take place less than 48 hours before the trade deal is due come into effect, and are virtually assured to go in the Conservative government’s favour after Labour leader Kier Starmer gave his backing to Johnson. “I can say today that when this deal comes before parliament Labour will accept it, and vote for it,” Starmer said. He said it was a “tough but necessary decision”, but added it was “not the deal that the government promised”, calling it “thin” and voicing fears about the government’s preparations for leaving the EU single market. Johnson has an 80-seat majority in the House of Commons, and Labour’s support will override any rebellion by militant Brexiteers within the Conservative party who may reject the deal. There was also reluctant backing from leaders of the UK’s devolved nations. Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, the leader of the pro-independence Scottish National Party, said in a statement that the deal “beggars belief”. “A deal is better than no deal,” she said, adding that Scotland did not vote to leave the EU and “now has the right to choose its own future as an independent country”. Northern Ireland First Minister Arlene Foster said her Democratic Unionist Party had “consistently urged both sides to achieve a deal”, stressing the need to maintain border-free trade between the province and EU member Ireland. Welsh First Minister Mark Drakeford told the BBC that the deal would be “difficult” for Wales, but that it provided a “platform to which we can return to argue for improvements in the future”. On the EU side, member states are expected to give provisional approval to the Brexit deal before the European Parliament can weigh in next month. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Britain's new parliament on Friday gave its initial approval to a revised EU divorce deal (by Johnson) that sets up a high-stakes clash with Brussels over the sides' future ties. The 358 to 234 vote paves the way for Prime Minister Boris Johnson to deliver on his winning general election… December 21, 2019 In "Foreign" The British parliament will vote on Boris Johnson’s deal to leave the EU on Friday, a move the prime minister described as delivering on his promise to “get the Brexit vote wrapped up for Christmas” after his landslide election victory. After suffering several defeats in the previous parliament, Johnson now… December 20, 2019 In "Foreign" British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government was defeated in parliament on Monday after December election, with the upper chamber voting in favour of a move to protect the rights of EU citizens in Britain after Brexit. Johnson’s Conservatives won a large majority in the lower chamber, the House of Commons,… January 21, 2020 In "Foreign"