Popular artiste, Riliwan Raheem, whose stage name is Real One, A.K.A. Babalegelege, has said God told him to use the lyrics of his music to deliver the people of the world, especially Africans, so that the world would pay more attention to blacks. Real One, who spoke to Vanguard on the Yelutide, said: “I have a big passion for my country and people, Nigerians. “Many have passed through hardship and have died. Others do not have money for feeding. I am talking about the Covid-19 time and #EndSARS protest.” On what brought him into music, he said: “I was called by God to be a messenger by using the lyrics of my music to deliver the people of the world, especially Africans, so the world can hear the voice of the blacks.” Real One added that his latest album, entitled, “Chosen One,” coming out early next year 2021, is for the people that pass through hard times. The artiste, who is single, said his role models include Akon and 9ice. He noted that he was dedicating his latest album to God Almighty and his mother, Mrs. Mulikat Raheem. Real One also gave special thanks to Chief Seyi Oloofinjana and all who believed in his calling, saying “You are all chosen one and thank you to Prince Obinna Orji a.k.a., Onyeoma Africa, for managing me well.” Vanguard News Nigeria The gracefully ageing Juju music legend and maestro, Chief Sunday Adeniyi Adegeye a.k.a King Sunny Ade (KSA) has encouraged musicians in the country to forecast whenever they are planning to compose songs and put into consideration how relevant such music will be in the next 20 years. September 24, 2016 In "Showtime People" Budding Nigerian rapper, Dolapo Oyatomi a.k.a Doxy is no doubt a talent to watch out for in the music industry. The Computer Engineering graduate of Covenant University is a youngster who has been taking giant steps towards making his mark in the music world. He started out about six years… November 1, 2015 In "Showtime People" Saturday, July 22, would remain significant in the annals of history, not because it was the day the biggest reggae festival in the world- the Reggae Sumfest shut down Jamaica. But importantly,the day Nigerian dancehall star, Patoranking broke the record as the first African artiste to perform at the festival. July 29, 2017 In "Entertainment"