The US State Department said Friday it was terminating five Chinese-funded exchange programs with the United States, calling them propaganda tools for Beijing. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement that these programs, conducted under a US law called the MECEA that permits American government employees to travel using foreign government funds, were “disguised as ‘cultural exchanges.'” “While other programs funded under the auspices of the MECEA are mutually beneficial, the five programs in question are fully funded and operated by the PRC government as soft power propaganda tools,” Pompeo said, referring to the People’s Republic of China. “They provide carefully curated access to Chinese Communist Party officials, not to the Chinese people, who do not enjoy freedoms of speech and assembly.” The termination is the latest reflection of President Donald Trump’s sharply antagonistic relationship with China. Under Trump, the US launched a trade war with Beijing, has challenged Beijing’s territorial ambitions in disputed Asian waters, criticized its crackdown on freedoms in Hong Kong and blamed China’s handling of the initial coronavirus outbreak for the pandemic now engulfing the globe. [AFP]  Vanguard News Nigeria The United States on Friday imposed new sanctions on Chinese officials for allegedly participating in coercive influence activities around the world. In a statement, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced new visa restrictions on Chinese officials who have engaged in a variety of activities, from physical violence to espionage,… December 5, 2020 In "Foreign" United States (US) order to China to close its consulate in Houston was to protect US intellectual property and private information, the State Department said Wednesday. Spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus was elaborating on the incident that has strained already tense relations between the two world powers, as US Secretary of State… July 22, 2020 In "Foreign" US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo charged Thursday that China may have known of the new coronavirus as early as November, renewing accusations that Beijing has not been transparent and again drawing ire from China. "You'll recall that the first cases of this were known by the Chinese government maybe… April 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"