The House of Representatives on Wednesday passed a bill that could close US stock and money markets to Chinese firms. The “Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act” could be quickly placed on the desk of US President Donald Trump for final approval, since it was already passed by the Senate. The measure introduced in 2019 by Louisiana Republican Senator John Kennedy would mandate that foreign companies listed on US stock exchanges comply with accounting requirements of the US Securities and Exchange Commission. Many foreign companies already conform to the standard, but Chinese firms do not. In addition, Chinese groups on the US Stock Exchange will have to disclose whether one or more of their board members are members of the Chinese Communist Party. According to figures from a congressional commission, 217 Chinese companies were listed on US stock exchanges in early October, valued at a total of $2.2 trillion based on share prices. A small number of those firms are also on the Asian markets and could fall back to these stock exchanges in the event of delisting in the United States. One of the heavyweights on the list is e-commerce colossus Alibaba, which in 2014 had the biggest all-time initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange, raising $25 billion. Its rival JD.com is listed on the Nasdaq, an index rich with technological firms, and also on a Hong Kong exchange. The bill passed by Congress is part of a commercial and political duel between Washington and Beijing, and takes aim at opaque accounting practices used by Chinese firms listing shares for trade on US exchanges. The SEC has already crafted a proposal similar to the measure that passed the House of Representatives on Wednesday. In November, the SEC had already formulated a proposal similar to the text adopted Wednesday by the House. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria President Donald Trump’s administration is considering delisting Chinese companies from United States stock exchanges, three sources briefed on the matter said on Friday, in what would be a radical escalation of US-China trade tensions. The move would be part of a broader effort to limit US investment in Chinese companies,… September 28, 2019 In "Foreign" The trade war ignited by U.S President Donald Trump against China has caused a dip in the stock markets of both countries.. March 23, 2018 In "News" The United States threatened Thursday to cut off Beijing-controlled China Telecom from serving the US market because of legal and security risks, the Justice Department announced Thursday. A recommendation by the government's top departments, including Defense, State and Homeland Security, said that the Federal Communications Commission should "revoke and terminate"… April 10, 2020 In "Foreign"