THE Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), yesterday, launched its X-PO, an online platform for public offerings (POs) following the “No Objection” letter received from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on the initiative. The X-PO, the first end-to-end online public offer platform in Africa, is designed to enhance the experiences of stakeholders in the public offerings value chain by providing a smarter and efficient way to manage public offers in the Nigerian capital market. Oscar Onyema, Chief Executive Officer, NSE, speaking on the development, said the launch of the X-PO platform reinforces the Exchange’s commitment to revolutionise stakeholders’ experience in the Nigerian capital market leveraging technology. He stated: “The X-PO has been designed to enhance the efficiency of PO subscription process and operational work-flow to support issuers in raising capital and enhance the reach of POs while promoting financial inclusion and retail investors’ participation in the market.”  “Furthermore, X-PO will accelerate the reconciliation and allotment process for POs, as well as reduce the incidence of unclaimed dividends, thereby boosting investor confidence in the capital market. “The launch of the X-PO is particularly timely given the new normal occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic. The platform’s sustainable approach affirms NSE’s commitment to deploying environmentally friendly business practices and promoting paperless public offer subscriptions. We have also taken into consideration the vital need for privacy and data protection, deploying the highest levels of security to ensure that stakeholders can enjoy a safe and secure digital public offering experience.” Vanguard News Nigeria THE Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment (CISI) London has announced a new partnership with the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to provide trainings for CISI’s qualifications in Nigeria, under the auspices of X-Academy, the knowledge platform of the Exchange. November 14, 2018 In "Business" The newly elected President of Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers, CIS, Mr. Albert Okumagba is  a proven technocrat, an astute financial services professional and a strong advocate of good governance. HE is the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of BGL Plc. He is also the Chairman of BGL Securities Limited, BGL… August 18, 2014 In "Business" In a bid to attain the $1 trillion market capitalization target by 2016, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has embarked on various initiatives and strategies aimed at repositioning the Nigerian stock market. December 19, 2012 In "Business"