A medical doctor with Monaya Hospital, Ogoja in the northern part of Cross River State has reportedly been attacked by Fulani herdsmen. The doctor who gave his name as Njoku said he narrowly escaped being abducted by two herdsmen on Tuesday night shortly after he arrived home from work. “I left the hospital about 8.00 pm to my house and as I alighted from the car two Fulani men with pistols emerged from the bush close to my house and ordered me to lie down”. He said he asked them what was the problem, they then asked him to follow them to the bush to see their leader. “At that point it occurred to me that I will not come back alive so I jumped on the one behind me and began to wrestle with him”. The medical doctor narrated that while he tried to wrestle with one, the other came to assist his colleague and shot him at the back. According to him, he let go the one he was wrestling with and began to run with the herdsmen chasing after him. ” I tried to stop vehicles but none stopped until I got to a school only to find the gate locked I then crawled into a gutter and hid under a bridge “. Njoku who was still bleeding from the gunshot wounds is receiving medical attention at the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital where doctors are working to remove the pellets. The Chief of Monaya, Igri Ishor said the incident is the first time herdsmen are attacking anybody in the area and promised to take up the matter with the leadership of Fulanis in the area DSP Irene Ugbo, the Cross River State Police Command spokesman said she is yet to be briefed on the matter. Vanguard News Nigeria NOTWITHSTANDING  the security seal in Delta State, where Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, introduced a dusk-to-dawn curfew, Tuesday,  to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, some suspected armed  herdsmen have flagrantly undermined the security measures  and unleashed a reign of terror on  residents at Ibusa and Okpanam communities in  Oshimili North Local Government Area… April 18, 2020 In "News" PANDEMONIUM, Friday night broke out at Ibusa, Oshimili North Local Government Area of Delta State, following the killing of the Pastor of the Celestial Church of Christ, Breakthrough Cathedral, Ibusa, Parish 1, Most Senior Evangelist Stephen Akpor by two suspected Fulani herdsmen. April 11, 2020 In "News" NATIONAL President of the Foundation for Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusade, FHAACC, Alaowei Cleric, kidnapped, penultimate Wednesday, by Fulani herdsmen, at the outskirts of Lokoja, while traveling to Abuja with some Ayakoromo community leaders in Delta State, has revealed how a soldier hired by a contending faction and his Fulani… August 13, 2016 In "News"