SENIOR Special Assistant, Media and Publicity to the President, Mallam Garba Shehu, said yesterday that there was need to stop herdsmen from roaming all over the country to prevent clashes with farmers. Shehu spoke when he featured on Sunrise Daily, a Channels Television programme. The presidential spokesman was responding to the allegation that President Muhammadu Buhari was grabbing lands to dole out to herdsmen. The allegation was made by a member of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Katch Ononuju, who also featured on the programme. Ononuju had said the government did not care about the lives of its citizens, hence, the continued kidnappings, killings and clashes between farmers and herders. But Shehu blamed the actions of the herdsmen on the drying of grazing lands in the north. He said: “This country has a grazing problem because the herders are mostly Fulani. The challenge is from these places they had practiced, you know, the encroachment by desert leading to drying up of a lot of grazing lands in the northern-most parts of the country. “This has put pressure on the herders who have been looking to the south-west green grass so that their cattle will eat and also have water to drink. It is a global climate situation which is unfortunate considering what has happened along the Lake Chad basin. “I’m glad that governors of the north are coming together to say let us resolve this problem of grazing because we have to stop these herders from roaming and eating up our crops all over the country. “They drive their cattle into farmlands and eat up the crops. The farmers fight back and the killings follow. The country cannot continue in this way. “The president has no plan to fish for a land other than the one he has inherited from. Vanguard News Nigeria The Presidency has frowned at recent unhelpful comments regarding the plan to stop roaming of cattle herders with the attendant clashes with farmers via the establishment of ‘Ruga Settlement’ across the country. July 1, 2019 In "News" THE Presidency last night confirmed that the Federal Government has gazetted lands in all the 36 states of the federation for the Ruga settlement but that the programme was optional for states to participate. June 30, 2019 In "News" Investigations have revealed how top officials of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development  mismanaged the controversial Ruga settlement projects across the country, a development  that led to its suspension last Wednesday by President Muhammadu Buhari. Following widespread opposition to the programme. The President asked the National Economic Council,… July 6, 2019 In "News"