The reign of jungle justice continued in Ibadan yesterday, as a suspected robber was set ablaze by angry youths along with Agodi Government Secretariat, Ibadan. Another was also lynched to death after been tortured by the angry youths in the community. Sources said the duo allegedly robbed an unsuspecting member of the public in his car at about 6:00 pm around the Agodi Secretariat axis. According to an eye witness who craved anonymity, the alleged robbers were trailed by some yet to be identified youths to Agodi Secretariat after they had robbed the businessman of a sum of N5 million. The witness explained that the youths who had given the suspected robbers a hot chase eventually nabbed them along the Parliament Road and attacked them with dangerous weapons. They have firstly beaten blue-black, which resulted in their death. One was consequently set ablaze, while the corpse of the other was left lying on the road. The situation sent shock and fears among motorists and other road users approaching the axis, especially those at the popular Agodi Gardens. The witness, however, noted that the men of the Operation Burst who were on their way for another operation had a stopover at the scene of the incident before they later zoomed off. Men of the Amotekun Corps, were, however, mobilised to the axis, manning the security patrol in two vans from the Agodi Secretariat Gate towards the Agodi Gardens down the Parliament Road. Vanguard News Nigeria By Adeola Badru The reign of jungle justice continued in Ibadan yesterday, as a suspected robber was set ablaze by angry youths along Agodi Government Secretariat, Ibadan. Another was also lynched to death after being tortured by the angry youths in the community. Sources said the duo allegedly robbed an… December 17, 2020 In "News" By Adeola Badru An angry mob on Friday set ablaze a suspected robber at 110 roundabout area of Odo-Ona in Ibadan. According to an eye witness account, two hoodlums robbed a motorcycle (Okada) rider of his TVS motorcycle at Olomi area of Ibadan and took to their heels, adding that… December 4, 2020 In "Metro" A middle-aged man suspected to be an armed robber was on Monday, set ablaze by angry mob after an unsuccessful attempt to rob a pregnant woman. May 9, 2016 In "News"