Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, NIDCOM, Honorable Abike Dabiri-Erewa, weekend, debunked the rumour making the round that she hoard Covid-19 Palliatives in her G.R.A residence in Ikorodu, Lagos. The former Member, Federal House of Representatives, representing Ikorodu Constituency was reacting to a social media post alleging her and a former Commissioner for Agric in Lagos that both were hoarding Covid-19 Pandemic palliatives. She spoke with Vanguard during the Lagos-East Senatorial Bye-Elections in Ikorodu, Lagos saying she was been accused wrongly. The social media post by a yet-to-be identified author had alleged the duo of branding the palliatives after the All Progressive Congress APC, candidate in the Lagos-East Senatorial District Bye–elections Mr. Tokunbo Abiru in order to distribute to voters. Also, the post.said the palliatives were hoarded in Dabiri’s property in G.R.A, Ikorodu and a private school belonging to the former commissioner. It says, “There are palliatives inside Abike Dabiri’s house, in G.R.A, Ikorodu. “They are branding it with Abiru sticker and also inside Kith and Kit school, along Ibeshe Road, that belongs to former commissioner for Agric, under Tinubu,” However, Honorable Dabiri has debunked the rumour describing it as misleading and capable of inciting violence by political gladiators. She said, “I was surprised when I read it in the social media that there were palliatives in my house. It doesn’t anger me because I don’t think we should stoop so low because of political ambition,” She advised Nigerian youths to avoid being used for political ambition but should mobilize to ensure they are voted and be voted for. “If we look at the legal aspect of it, inciting people into violence or breaking into people’s property is a criminal offence and this should not be encouraged. With social media, there is instant judgment as the lies may be believed but measures should be taken to avoid this and the social media should be well regulated. This goes beyond the user and those who control the social.media activities should bear this in mind,” On her advise to Nigerian youths, she said,” There is no reason why Nigerian youths cannot be successful in elections  but this should be pursued objectively rather than launching a campaign of calmony.”  Wife of the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Muyibat Oyefusi, says Rep. Abike Dabiri-Erewa has all it takes to be a governor in Lagos State and should be considered for the post. March 14, 2014 In "News" Former broadcast journalist, Abike Dabiri-Erewa in her hey days as a television girl built a reputation for bringing light to the downtrodden in the society across the country. Now fully engaged as a legislator representing Ikorodu Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Mrs. Dabiri-Erewa’s good spirit is the toast… April 10, 2013 In "Politics" President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed Abike Dabiri-Erewa as his Senior Special Assistant on Foreign Affairs and the Diaspora. February 15, 2016 In "News"