South African President, Cyril Ramaphosa, on Monday announced a new ban on alcohol sales and said mask-wearing will be mandatory in public after the nation became the first to record one million coronavirus cases in Africa. Ramaphosa justified a raft of new measures by a “rapid rise” in infections, most by a new strain of the virus feared to be more contagious. He pointed the finger at “super-spreader” social events and an “extreme lack of vigilance over the holiday period”. “We have let down our guard, and unfortunately we are now paying the price,” the president said during a solemn televised speech. Africa’s worst-hit country previously banned alcohol sales in March when it was battling its first wave of infections. Ramaphosa said data showed that “excessive alcohol consumption” leads to an increase in trauma cases reported at hospitals. Such admissions put “an unnecessary strain on our already stretched public health facilities,” he said, announcing that the new ban would start from midnight. He said that more than 41,000 health workers have contracted Covid-19 since the start of the pandemic. The country’s curfew will now start at 9 pm — from 11 pm previously — while non-essential establishments such as shops, bars and restaurants will close from 8 pm. All large gatherings — inside or outside — will be prohibited for the next two weeks, except for funerals which will be limited to 50 people. South Africa passed one million recorded coronavirus cases on Sunday, while it has registered nearly 27,000 deaths. “Unless we act now and unless we act decisively, the number of new infections will far exceed what we experienced during the first wave and thousands more people will lose their lives,” Ramaphosa said. Vanguard News Nigeria South Africa's President, Cyril Ramaphosa, on Sunday re-imposed a night curfew and suspended alcohol sales as coronavirus infections spiked and the health system risked being overwhelmed. Coronavirus infection numbers had in recent days skyrocketed with at least 12,000 infections recorded daily, translating to around 500 infections every hour, severely straining… July 13, 2020 In "Foreign" South Africa will lift its coronavirus-linked ban on the sale of alcohol and tobacco products next week, President Cyril Ramaphosa said Saturday, announcing the removal of "nearly all restrictions" on economic activities. The virus-related ban on the purchase of booze and cigarettes has been controversial, and no other country has… August 16, 2020 In "Foreign" South Africa has introduced new restrictions, including another ban on alcohol sales, to help contain the spread of coronavirus. A night-time curfew will also be in place from Monday, and the wearing of masks outdoors is now compulsory. President Cyril Ramaphosa said the alcohol ban - South Africa's second this… July 13, 2020 In "News"