The 23-year-old Nigerian superstar, Stanley Omah Didia popularly known as “Omah Lay” was grateful and happy for being listed among 10 artistes with hot hit for BBC Radio 1Xtra list for 2021. Omah Lay expressing his appreciation on Sunday said “Thank you 1xtra for counting on me on BBC Hot for 2021. The Radio had on its Twitter handle 1xtra said that Omah Lay’s music is deeply Afro-Fusion, with his biggest strength lying in his songwriting. Omah Lay said that is why, ‘I take my time with every song, l am not one to just knock off a song immediately, I have to listen to the needs of the song”. The other artistes that made the list are Bella, a UK R&B, Berwyn, Central Cee, Ivorian Doll, Lavida Local, Midas the Jagaban. Others are Pa Salieu, Skillibeng and Stalk Ashley. According to the radio, “We are tipping these ten artistes for big things in 2021 and will be supporting them in their journey over the next twelve months”. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Omah Lay is one of the best break out artistes of the year 2020 after releasing “Get Layd” album with 5 track Extended Play Record (EP). He currently signed to the Dypper Music record label and has established a huge fanbase, with singles including hits like “Lo Lo” and “Damn”. Omah has been generating massive headlines in Nigeria recently after he was arrested in Uganda for allegedly breaking Covid-19 rules. However, all the charges were dropped following federal government’ intervention. Vanguard News Nigeria mah Lay By Juliet Ebirim Wizkid, Davido, Burna Boy, Don Jazzy Tiwa Savage, and several Nigerian music stars have taken to social media to express their anger over the arrest of Nigerian singers, Stanley Omah Didia aka Omah Lay and Temilade Openiyi professionally known as Tems, in Uganda shortly after… December 15, 2020 In "Entertainment" By Juliet Ebirim Nigerian singers Stanley Omah Didia aka Omah Lay and Temilade Openiyi popularly known as Tems, have reportedly been remanded in prison in Uganda, until Wednesday,16th of December when they would be expected to appear before a Court. The Ugandan Police made this known today via its official… December 14, 2020 In "Entertainment" Nigerian artiste, Wizkid has been announced as the headline act for this year's BBC Radio 1Xtra Live music event. Wizkid will join the likes of French Montana, Ms Banks, Aitch and DaniLeigh at Arena Birmingham on 5 October. He said he was "looking forward" to the event, adding: "Big up… September 24, 2019 In "Entertainment"