In an apparent move to boost dollar supply into the economy, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday introduced new rules that allow beneficiaries of diaspora remittance and transfers into domiciliary accounts to receive their money in foreign currency. Previously, beneficiaries of diaspora remittance can only receive in cash the naira equivalent of the amount transferred. Also foreign currency cash withdrawal from domiciliary accounts was restricted to money paid into such accounts by cash lodgements. Announcing the policy change yesterday, CBN’s Director, Trade and Exchange Department, Dr. O Nnaji, said the new rules were to liberalize, simplify and improve the receipt and administration of diaspora remittances into Nigeria, as well as  to ensure the stability of the foreign exchange market. He said the removal was also consequent on the improved capabilities of the apex bank to monitor transactions, forestall money laundering and prevent the adverse effect of dollarization in the  economy. He stated this in two circulars  to authorised dealers and the general public,  titled, “Amendment to procedures for Receipt Of Diaspora Remittance”, and Operations of Domiciliary  Account. He said: “In an effort to liberalize, simplify and improve the receipt and administration of diaspora remittances into Nigeria, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) wishes to announce as follows. “Beneficiaries of Diaspora Remittances through International Money Transfer Operators (IMTOs) shall henceforth receive such inflows in foreign currency (US Dollars) through the designated bank of their choice. “Such recipients of remittances may have the option of receiving these funds in foreign currency cash (US Dollars) or into their ordinary domiciliary account. “These changes are necessary to deepen the foreign exchange market, provide more liquidity and create more transparency in the administration of Diaspora Remittances into Nigeria. “In addition, these changes would help finance a future stream of investment opportunities for Nigerians in the Diaspora, while also guaranteeing that recipients of remittances would receive a market reflective exchange rate for their inflows. ‘All Authorized Dealers and the general public should note that beneficiaries shall have unfettered access and utilization to such foreign currency proceeds, either in cash and/or in their Domiciliary Accounts, in line with our circular TED/FEM/FPC/GEN/01/010. Please ensure strict compliance and be guided accordingly.” My proposed solution to our foreign exchange crisis, if followed will solve the following of our problems -It will restore and stabilise the naira and bring our economy out of recession -Will make the black market redundant -Will prevent corrupt official from siphoning public funds out of the country -Will… November 12, 2016 In "Viewpoint" From an unprecedented high of N412 per dollar in the first week of August, the parallel market exchange rate dropped to N393 per dollar last week. The N19 appreciation for the local currency, which had depreciated by about 36 per cent this year, was prompted by increased dollar supply occasioned… August 22, 2016 In "Business" Banks and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, have kicked against the decision of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, to bar foreign currency deposits into domiciliary accounts. August 3, 2015 In "Headlines"