The Department of State has raised the alarm that criminal elements are planning to bomb public places during the yuletide seasons. The alarm is contained in a statement made available to Vanguard on Tuesday by the Public Relations Officer of the DSS, Dr. Peter Afunanya. Although Afunanya did not name the specific place earmarked for the attacks, the spokesman said the masterminds plan to use a combination of explosives, suicide bombings and other dangerous weapons. The statement said the planned attacks were meant to create a general sense of fear and undermine the government of Nigeria. The statement said, “The Department of State Services (DSS) wishes to inform the public about plans by some criminal elements to carry out violent attacks on public places including key and vulnerable points during the yuletide seasons. “The planned dastardly acts are to be executed through the use of explosives, suicide bombing and other dangerous weapons. “The objective is to create a general sense of fear among the people and subsequently undermine the Government. “Against this backdrop, citizens are called upon to be extra vigilant and report strange movements and indeed, all suspicions around them to security and law enforcement agencies. “On its part, the Service is collaborating with other sister agencies to ensure that adequate measures are put in place for protection of lives and property. “To further achieve this purpose, the Service has provided these emergency response numbers *08132222105* and *09030002189* for urgent contacts. “It is also using this opportunity to unveil its interactive website *www.dss.gov.ng* for public communication support. “Everyone is encouraged to take advantage of these platforms and similar ones provided by related agencies to timely reach and avail them (security agencies) of required information. “However, the Service advises those planning to cause chaos and damage to public peace to desist from such as it will stop at nothing to apprehend and bring them to justice. “While assuring citizens and residents of their safety during and after the festive periods, the DGSS, Alhaji YM. Bichi fwc, with his Management and Staff, wishes all, Happy Celebrations and a Prosperous 2021,” the statement said. Vanguard News Nigeria The Department of State Services DSS has said that it has arrested some terrorist planning to attack Nigerians during the Sallah festive season. June 23, 2017 In "News" Soni Daniel - Abuja The Department of State Services (DSS) raised alarm saying it has uncovered syndicated plots by some undesirable groups to cause a breakdown of law and order in various parts of the country including Abuja. The arrangement, according to a statement signed by the DSS Spokesman, Peter… December 3, 2019 In "Crime Alert" The Department of State Services, DSS, has foiled a major plot by the Islamic State of West Africa, ISWA, to bomb the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Abuja, and six states in the northern part of Nigeria, just as it planned to cause mass murder and destruction of property. The agency… September 10, 2017 In "News"