Northern Elders Forum has condemned President Muhammadu Buhari over the spate of killings and criminalities in the country. Few days back, members of the third deadliest terrorist organization, Boko Haram killed about 43 rice farmers at Zamarmari/Jere local government area of Borno state. Their death has sparked criticisms from Nigerians and international bodies, calling for the sack of service chiefs. Supporting the movement for a thorough restructuring of the security system Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, the forum’s director of publicity and advocacy in a statement said: “The Northern Elders Forum joins Nigerians in expressing outrage at the killings of farmers in Borno State and many other people on a daily basis in many parts of the North. Our voices have been raised without pause for a long time against pervasive insecurity in our region. “Under this administration, life has lost its value, and more and more citizens are coming under the influence of criminals. We do not see any evidence of a willingness on the part of President Buhari to honour his oath to provide security for Nigerians. In civilized nations, leaders who fail so spectacularly to provide security will do the honourable thing and resign. “We have consistently drawn attention to lack of political will to fight the Boko Haram insurgency and other threats such as banditry, rustling, and kidnapping. We had offered suggestions on how the security infrastructure could be improved and leadership of the military could be made more effective. Obviously, along with advice and concerns from many other Nigerians, these have made no impression on President Muhammadu Buhari. “These particular killings have been greeted by the most insensitive response by spokespersons of the President. The lame excuse that farmers had not sought permission from the military to harvest produce merely exposed the misleading claims that our military had secured vast territories from the insurgency. “These killings and the reality they expose will make relocation of citizens and resumption of economic activities a lot more difficult to achieve even for a leadership that attaches priority to them, and this administration does not.” Vanguardngr.com Angry words flowed yesterday as regional socio-political groups yesterday blasted the Northern Elders Forum, NEF,  and Coalition of Northern Groups for calling on Fulani herdsmen to leave the southern part of the country and return to the north. July 18, 2019 In "Headlines" Northern elders have passed a vote of confidence on President Muhammadu Buhari's administration, saying the president's sterling leadership quality had kept the people more united despite threats in some quarters. The elders under the aegis of Coalition of Northern Elders for Peace and Development,(CNEEPD),however,expressed dissatisfaction in the security sector, saying… October 17, 2020 In "News" …10 women still missing, says Amnesty International …Killing of farmers insane, says Buhari …Massacre, most violent direct attack against civilians in 2020 — UN …Redouble your efforts to end violent crimes in Nigeria, Lawan tells security agencies …PDP condemns killings, tasks Buhari on security …Ganduje’s aide condemns killings, says 24hrs… November 30, 2020 In "News"