Joint Border Patrol Teams (JBPT) put in place to enforce movement restrictions during the 16-month border closure are still in operation in Seme, seven days after the reopening of the border. Reports have it that the Federal Government had set up the JBPT, comprising police, military, immigration, customs and civil defence, to enforce movement restrictions and curb activities of smugglers when the land borders were partially closed in August 2019. A NAN correspondent who monitored activities in the area reports that the JBPT was still in full operation at Owode and Seme land borders on Wednesday. Reports revealed that operatives of the JBPT were also seen at Gbaji junction, while their teams maintained several other checkpoints along the Badagry-Seme expressway. A member of the JBPT, who pleaded anonymity, told NAN that there was no directive from Abuja to disband the joint task force, seven days after the reopening of the land borders. NAN reports that the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, on Dec. 16, announced the immediate reopening of four land borders after the Federal Executive Council meeting held virtually in Abuja. The Federal Government had on August 21, 2019, ordered the closure of Nigerian borders to curb the smuggling of goods and weapons. Vanguard News Nigeria  Nigeria’s land border with Benin Republic at Seme, near Badagry, Lagos State, has been reopened on Friday. A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), who visited Seme on Friday, reports that human and vehicular movement across the border post have resumed after 16 months of closure. NAN also… December 18, 2020 In "News" SEME, the border between Nigeria and Benin Republic has a vast area, which covers a large expanse of land. The challenge in policing this particular border is the swampy nature of the environment that tends to retard movement of patrol vehicles. When Vanguard visited the border recently, security personnel were… February 3, 2014 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru -Abuja The harsh economic situation occasioned by the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic and negative impact of the border closure on the private sector and the ordinary Nigerians made President Muhammadu Buhari to order the re-opening of shut land borders, a top Presidency source has revealed. The top… December 21, 2020 In "News"