Gunmen shot dead a female news anchor and her driver on Thursday, her employer said, the second murder of a journalist in Afghanistan in a month. Malalai Maiwand was killed in the eastern city of Jalalabad, said Enekaas TV, the private television channel she worked for. Targeted killings of prominent figures, including journalists, clerics, politicians and rights activists, have become more common in recent months as violence surges in Afghanistan, despite peace talks between the government and the Taliban. Attaullah Khogyani, spokesman for the Nangarhar provincial governor, and the local hospital confirmed the killings. Nangarhar province and its capital Jalalabad have seen regular clashes between government forces and the Taliban. The extremist Islamic State group has also claimed several deadly attacks in the province. The murder of Maiwand, who was in her 20s, comes just weeks after Radio Liberty reporter Aliyas Dayee was killed in a car bomb attack in Lashkar Gah. Human Rights Watch said Dayee had previously been threatened by the Taliban. A former television presenter in Kabul, Yama Siawash, was killed in a similar car bomb attack near his home last month. No group has so far claimed these murders. Afghan forces are battling an increase in violence in the country, much of it unleashed by the Taliban as they attempt to gain leverage in peace talks in Qatar, which opened in September. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Unknown gunmen assassinated a female TV anchor and her driver in Afghanistan’s eastern province of Nangarhar, officials said on Thursday. The Journalist, Malalai Maiwand, and her driver were shot dead at 07:10 am local time (02:40 GMT) on their way to work in the provincial capital Jalalabad city, the provincial… December 10, 2020 In "News" Gunmen stormed a government building after multiple explosions in an ongoing attack in Jalalabad on Tuesday that has left at least eight people wounded, the latest in a series of assaults in the eastern Afghan city. July 31, 2018 In "News" At least nine people were killed and more than 30 injured when militants detonated bombs and stormed a government building Sunday in a continuing attack in an eastern Afghan city, officials said. May 13, 2018 In "News"