United States (US) Democrat Joe Biden’s election margin over incumbent President, Donald Trump, widened to more than seven million votes Thursday even as Trump and supporters persisted in claims of fraud. One month after the November 3 election, new local tallies from New York drove victor Biden’s total to 81,264,673 votes, compared to Trump’s 74,210,838, with a total 158.4 million votes counted so far, according to data compiled by the Cook Political Report. That gave Biden a solid 4.4 percentage point margin over the Republican president. Biden has captured 306 electoral votes for his victories in individual states, well past the 270 needed to win the presidency. Trump continues to insist Democrats engineered a massive fraud in the vote and that he is the real winner, without offering convincing evidence. Administrative and court challenges lodged by his campaign have repeatedly failed, and Biden, near-universally recognized as the president-elect, will be confirmed as winner by the Electoral College on December 14. Biden will be inaugurated president and occupy the White House on January 20. Vangyard News Nigeria President-elect Joe Biden's victory in Arizona was finalized Monday, further cementing his win even as Donald Trump continues to make claims of vote fraud. "This election was conducted with transparency, accuracy and fairness in accordance with Arizona's laws and elections procedures, despite numerous unfounded claims to the contrary," Arizona secretary… December 1, 2020 In "Foreign" Democrat Joe Biden has won the White House, US media said Saturday, defeating Donald Trump and ending a presidency that convulsed American politics, shocked the world and left the United States more divided than at any time in decades. CNN, NBC News and CBS News called the race in Biden's… November 7, 2020 In "Foreign" Democratic presidential contender Joe Biden edged closer to victory on Saturday, with his lead in the battleground state of Georgia increasing and vote counts still underway in several other states. Biden's lead over President Donald Trump grew to 7,248 votes on Saturday morning, up from 4,430 a few hours earlier,… November 7, 2020 In "General"