Real Madrid value success in the Champions League above all else, but the 13-time champions head into Wednesday’s game against Borussia Moenchengladbach with their qualification hopes hanging by a thread. Should they suffer a humiliating group stage exit, ending their remarkable run as the only team to ever avoid elimination at this phase, coach Zinedine Zidane’s future will be at risk. A win for either side in the Spanish capital will guarantee them passage through to the last 16 from Group B. If Madrid draw and Shakhtar win or draw with Inter Milan in the other group match, the Spanish giants will be out. Reports in the Spanish capital have linked Madrid with former Tottenham coach Mauricio Pochettino, currently without a club, should they part ways with Zidane, while Real Madrid Castilla coach Raul Gonzalez, a prolific striker for the club in the past, has been touted as a ‘plan B’. “I’m not thinking about that at all, I’m only thinking about winning and finishing top of the group,” Zidane told reporters on Tuesday when asked about the speculation. “This match is important for the team to show what it’s made of. This club, these players are all used to playing matches under pressure … we know what we’re playing for.” The Frenchman’s predecessor Santiago Solari was sacked after the humiliating last-16 exit against Ajax in the Champions League in 2019, paving the way for him to return just 10 months after his sudden departure. Last season’s elimination at the same phase by Manchester City was mitigated by the team’s strong domestic performance, as they ground their way to the Spanish title, but another early failure in Europe may prove to be the final straw for trigger-happy president Florentino Perez. “He has written the history of this club and he’s still writing it now. Last season he won two trophies for us,” Casemiro told reporters. “Often poeple forget what he has done and what he is continuing to do for this club. The team is 100 percent behind the coach.” However, despite his success during two stints in charge, winning three Champions League trophies, two La Liga titles and two Club World Cups among other silverware, and his fine history as a player, a defeat could make Zidane Madrid’s eighth managerial casualty in 10 years. He is at least boosted by the return of captain Sergio Ramos and right back Dani Carvajal. The Spanish duo are important parts of Madrid’s defence. Ramos in particular is essential, with Madrid having lost eight of their last 10 European games in which the 35-year-old has not played, including the Ajax and Manchester City eliminations. “Just talking about Sergio is a honour for me. He’s our leader, our captain,” said Casemiro. “He is one of the best players of all time, we are very happy he is back in the dressing room with us.” Zidane got a boost after a narrow 1-0 victory over Sevilla on Saturday, Real’s first Liga win since October. Madrid almost fell to defeat in Germany in October but last-gasp goals from Karim Benzema and Casemiro helped them earn a 2-2 draw after Marcus Thuram’s double put Gladbach ahead. A pair of wins against Antonio Conte’s underwhelming Inter Milan got Madrid back on track but a dismal 2-0 away defeat by Shakhtar Donetsk at the start of December left Zidane desperately needing a victory this week. Madrid then host league leaders Atletico Madrid in a derby clash on Saturday, another crucial match in a week which could define the Spanish champions’ season, and their coach’s future. After the Shakhtar defeat Zidane insisted he had no intention of resigning, but if the team stumble against Marco Rose’s Gladbach, that decision may be taken out of his hands. Vanguard News Nigeria Real Madrid boss Zinedine Zidane insists the European champions aren't prepared to settle for second place behind Borussia Dortmund in Champions League Group F despite the potential for an easier last 16 tie. December 6, 2016 In "Sports" Factfile on Roma and Real Madrid ahead of the Champions League last 16, first leg between the clubs at the Stadio Olimpico on Wednesday: February 17, 2016 In "News" Real Madrid coach Zinedine Zidane indicated that Cristiano Ronaldo will feature in the UEFA Super Cup against Manchester United after travelling with the squad to Skopje on Monday. August 7, 2017 In "Sports"