 NOVA Merchant Bank has emerged the winner of the ‘Bond Offering of the Year’ prize at the BusinessDay Bank and other Financial Institutions (BAFI) Awards. It clinched the prize for its extremely successful N10 billion seven year subordinated unsecured bond which was oversubscribed by 300 percent. In a well-attended ceremony comprising of Bank CEOs, captains of industries and senior financial executives, the Bank was crowned with the award in  recognition of the unprecedented and audacious nature of its bond issuance which was launched during the COVID-19 pandemic and within three years of the Bank commencing operations. Chairman of NOVA Merchant Bank, Mr. Phillips Oduoza, who expressed delight at the recognition, said that even within its short period of operations, the Bank had done a lot to fulfil its mandate of  providing long-term funding to its customers. “This award is due to the combined effort of the Bank’s high calibre Board and Management team. It bodes well for the future realisation of our desire to re-establish merchant banking as a key economic driver by providing long-term funds and advisory services,” he enthused. NOVA’s Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Nath Ude, who received the award on behalf of the Bank, dedicated it to all the staff who, according to him, have been highly instrumental to the achievement of the Bank’s goals and worked tirelessly to deliver strong results notwithstanding the macroeconomic challenges. “This bond leaves the Bank better positioned to meet the ever-growing needs of our customers for long term financing. It complements the traction we have witnessed in our business despite the challenging environment as we continue to seek ways to deliver superior value to our customers,” he stated. By Bassey Ekaette Founder/Group CEO of DLM Capital Group - Sonnie Ayere was bestowed with the “Investment CEO of the Decade Award” alongside winning  the “Most Innovative Investment Bank of the Year” at the Banks and other Financial Institutions (BAFI) Awards 2020. DLM Capital Group, the prime developmental investment bank… December 9, 2020 In "News" LAPO Microfinance Bank Limited has been adjudged the "Microfinance Bank of the year" in the country. The award was presented to the bank during the 7th annual BusinessDay Banks and other Financial Institutions Awards (BAFI) in Lagos. LAPO accounts for 24 per cent of total Microfinance credit in Nigeria. Speaking… October 23, 2019 In "News" Zenith Bank Plc, has emerged as the best bank in Nigeria in the recently released Global Finance Magazine World’s Best Banks Awards 2020. June 1, 2020 In "Business"