The Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu has granted approval for the immediate payment of N3 billion gratuity arrears to all verified retirees in the state and its local governments. This was contained in a statement signed by the Commissioner of Finance, Ibrahim Muhammad Augie and made available to newsmen in Birnin Kebbi on Thursday. According to the statement, N2 billion has been approved for the State Government verified retirees, while N1 billion is approved for Local Governments and Local Government Education Authorities retirees. It said that all necessary process for the electronic payment to all categories of the affected beneficiaries on a very favourable equitable ratio had been put into motion. It will be recalled that in May 2020, the sum of N2 .403 billion was paid to all the categories of verified retirees across the State. From inception of the Bagudu administration. a total sum of N 20.052 Billion has been paid as arrears of gratuities to the State and Local Government retirees. Notably, Kebbi State has since 2015 been psying salaries and pensions regularly, thereby owing no arrears. The commissioner said: “The government of Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu has always held the welfare of its citizens, including the state civil and public servants in high esteem . “We must remind ourselves that the resources at the disposal of Government to execute necessary economic and social development demands, in relation to revenues, is highly challenged , more so, under the current scourge of Covid -19. “Government cannot in all sincerity, effectively attend to all the demands on the lean resources available. We therefore call on all our citizens, particularly those better informed about the circumstances of the world , the sub-National and the Federal Governments, to be rational and selfless in demands they put on their Governments. ” Times like this call for prudence and self discipline and we must all agree to the necessity to prioritize state expenditures to areas that can best uplift our society from poverty. ” We are happy that, Kebbi State has become a beacon of hope for wealth creation, through development of Agriculture and also an abode of peace and harmony, to the envy of other states in the Federation. ” The Ministry of Finance wishes all our retirees a healthy and prosperous new year,” the statement concluded . Vanguard News Nigeria The Kebbi Government has approved the release of N5 billion for the payment of pension and gratuity to pensioners. January 17, 2017 In "News" The Kebbi Government said it has paid over N9 billion as pension and gratuities to over 3, 500 retirees in the state. May 1, 2018 In "News" The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has commended the Kebbi State Government for releasing N2.4 billion as part payment of gratuities and leave grants for junior staff. Malam Umar Alhassan, the Kebbi state Chairman of the congress, said the release of the fund would enhance the lifestyle of retired workers, adding… May 2, 2020 In "News"