THE Federal Government on Wednesday postponed the negotiation meeting earlier scheduled today with the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU. The postponement was contained in a message from Mr. Charles Akpan, Deputy Director, Ministry of Laboru and Employment. According to the message, “The Meeting between ASUU and the Federal Government earlier scheduled for today (Wednesday) by 3pm has been postponed. Thank you for your understanding.” ASUU has been on strike since March this year over the nonpayment of Earned Academic Allowances, non provision of revitalisation fund among others. Recently the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige had announced that government had agreed to make available N70 billion for Earned Allowances which include other three University based unions and the revitalisation fund. The Minister on Tuesday said that the Federal Government has kept its promises with the university teachers, adding that the government had faithfully complied with timeliness in the offer it made to the union. “For instance, the Federal Government promised to constitute a Negotiation Committee  for the 2009 Agreement and has fulfilled it with the last week’s inauguration  of the committee that has Prof. Muzali as chairman. “ The  N40b Earned Academic Allowances/ Earned Allowances  have also been processed just as the N30b revitalization Fund,  bringing it to a total of N70b . “ Likewise, the Visitation Panels for the Universities  have been approved by the President but the panel  cannot perform its responsibilities  until the shut universities are re-opened. “The gazzeting is also being rounded off at the Office of Attorney General of the Federation while the Ministry of Education is ready to inaugurate the various visitation panels. “Similarly, Government agreed  to pay salaries, allowances of Earned Academic Allowances/ Earned Allowances  with a hybrid platform that is not hundred  percent  IPPIS as requested by ASUU while  UTAS  is  undergoing usability and integrity test at National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) as demanded by ASUU. “I therefore state without equivocation that every offer with timeline has been faithfully fulfilled as promised by government .” Vanguard News Nigeria The Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) are yet to reach an agreement on the union demands. Sen. Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment, said this while addressing newsmen at the end of a closed door conciliation meeting between Federal Government representatives and ASUU on… November 5, 2020 In "Education" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Abuja The Federal Government directed a ministerial committee to review the registration application of Congress of University Academics, CONUA, within four weeks and report back. CONUA is a group of university lecturers that have broken away from the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, and has applied… November 19, 2020 In "Education" ABUJA----ACADEMIC Staff Union of Universities (ASUU)has suspended the three month old strike after signing all agreements with the Federal Government. February 7, 2019 In "News"