In continuation with its relentless effort to rid the Federal Capital Territory of kidnappers’ activities, the FCT Police Command has arrested eleven (11) suspected kidnappers operating along Kwaita-Kwali, Kuje, Bwari and Karshi axis. The arrest of the suspects by Police operatives followed credible intelligence, from the Command’s Anti-Kidnapping Squad which led to coordinated raids on these areas. A statement confirming the arrests, signed by FCT Police Spokesperson, ASP Mariam Yusuf said, ‘The suspects confessed to being involved in kidnapping activities, supply of logistics to kidnappers and cattle rustling”. The suspects arrested are Yau Tukur 30years, Bissalla Dallatu 31years, Danladi Sule 29years, Dikko Adamu 30years, Usman Abdullahi 30 years and Mati Umaru 30years. Others are Abubakar Usman 55years, and Abubakar Abdullahi 25years all males. Exhibits recovered include One (1) unregistered Bajaj motorcycle, cash sum of three hundred and forty thousand naira (N340,000)and one(1) techno phone. In a similar development, Police Operatives from Karshi Division rescued a 10-year old kidnap victim, trailed and arrested the suspects linked to his kidnap along Angwan Boyi-Karshi axis on 5th December, 2020. ASP Yusuf said, “The suspects are: Lalo Bode 24years, Dahiru Aliyu 20years and Rabo Yusuf 20years all males who confessed to the crime and other criminal activities along Karshi axis. “While stating that the FCT Command will not rest on its oar in ensuring the safety of lives and property within the FCT, the Command wishes to reassure residents of a hitch-free Christmas/Newyear celebration” “All the suspects will be arraigned in court upon conclusion of investigation” Vanguard News Nigeria ...26 suspects arrested Joint Counter Kidnapping operation conducted by the FCT Police Command in synergy with the Nigerian Army, and other security agencies have successfully smashed the notorious kidnapping gang terrorizing Kuje, Rubochi, Kwali and Abaji axis in Abuja whose victims included NSCDC personnel, a Police Inspector and several other… November 6, 2019 In "Metro" ...As Joint police, army, security agencies team bust kidnap syndicates terrorizing Abuja, arrest 26 suspects arrested Kingsley Omonobi – Abuja A 65-year-old rapist, Demi Ejegi, was arrested by Police operatives from Mabushi division, Abuja when he was caught in the act of defiling a 3-year-old child. The paedophile stated that… November 6, 2019 In "Metro" The FCT Police Command on Friday paraded 49 suspects in connection with alleged armed robbery, kidnapping, car snatching, drug peddling and frauds. The FCT Commissioner of Police, CP Bala Ciroma, said that the arrests were part of achievements made in its crime fighting efforts. He said that the command also… October 18, 2019 In "News"