In its continued effort to combat the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria, one of Africa’s leading foods and infrastructure conglomerates, BUA Group, has donated three fully-equipped ambulances and 50,000 reusable face masks to the Gombe State government. This is coming just as the company also donated 50,000 face masks and three ambulances to Bauchi State. Presenting the donations to Governor Muhammad Yahaya of Gombe State on behalf of Abdul Samad Rabiu, Founder and Chairman of BUA Group, Dr. Aliyu Idi Hong, the Director, Government Relations, BUA Group, stressed that BUA is committed to improving the healthcare of Gombe people. He noted that the donation would ease the conveying of COVID-19 patients and those with other life-threatening ailments for immediate treatment. Hong, representing Rabiu, commended Governor Yahaya for his government’s efforts towards fighting the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. He added that studies have shown that people who complied with the proper use of face masks had lower chances of infections. “These ambulances we are donating today are convenient and are fully-equipped for the conveyance of patients, specifically for COVID-19. “They are also suitable for other medical emergencies. “Through these donations, we aim to join efforts with the state government in improving the healthcare and welfare of the good people of Gombe State,” Hong added. Reacting, Governor Yahaya described the donation as suitable and timely, eulogising BUA for its remarkable humanitarian gesture and steady efforts in supporting the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The governor used the opportunity to invite BUA Group to take advantage of the numerous business potentials in Gombe State and come and invest. He said Gombe is endowed with solid minerals and vast land for industrial and agricultural activities. Vanguard News Nigeria As COVID-19 cases continue to rise in Nigeria, BUA Group, one of Africa’s leading foods and infrastructure companies has donated three ambulances and 50,000 facemasks to Bauchi State in line with its continued efforts to combat the spread of the virus in the country. December 7, 2020 In "Business" BUA Foundation has donated three ambulances and N200 million to Adamawa State in support of the state's fight against COVID-19. This was as the state governor of the state, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, expressed his appreciation to the Chairman of BUA Foundation, Abdul Samad Rabiu for fulfilling a pledge to… July 17, 2020 In "News" BUA Foundation has donated five ambulances and 20 Hilux vehicles to assist Kano State government in stemming the spread of the virus in the state as part of its COVID-19 health infrastructure and response grant for the state. BUA Foundation is the philanthropic arm of Africa’s leading foods and infrastructure… May 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"