PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari will next Thursday address a joint session of the National Assembly on efforts by his government to address the sundry security challenges besetting the country. This was disclosed by the Personal Assistant to the President on Social Media, Lauretta Onochie, in a message on her Twitter handle, @Laurestar, she posted on Monday. The message read, “President @MBuhari will address a joint session of the National Assembly (@nassnigeria) on Thursday, December 10, 2020.” Recall that the House of Representatives had last week Tuesday invited the President to appear on the floor of the Green Chamber to offer an explanation on the rising spate of insecurity in the country. The invitation was a sequel to a motion of urgent national importance brought by the Borno State caucus over last weekend’s killing of farmers in the state. The Senate had also in a separate resolution asked the President to sack his service chiefs. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila had last week paid a visit to President Buhari where he hinted that the President agreed to address citizens via the Parliament on the security challenges confronting the nation. Vanguard News Nigeria The National Assembly has drawn the battle line with President Muhammadu Buhari as it, yesterday, charged him to address threats to the lives of the citizenry and the country’s democracy, failing which it would initiate constitutional actions against him. June 6, 2018 In "Headlines" THE Senate has summoned President Muhammadu Buhari to appear before a joint session of the National Assembly to brief the Upper and Lower Chamber of the continued killings, maiming and wanton destruction of lives and property in Benue State and other parts of the country. April 26, 2018 In "News" STRONG indications emerged, yesterday, that the presentation of the 2018 Appropriation Bill by President Muhammadu Buhari to the Senate and House of Representatives may be threatened as lawmakers are poised to create tension and make the session very rowdy. November 7, 2017 In "News"