Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila has charged Nigerians in positions of authority to develop the culture of giving back to the people. He said the welfare of the people should be of concern to Nigerians elected or appointed to serve at all times. Gbajabiamila spoke at the Central School Umuozu, Nwagele LGA, Imo State during the constituency empowerment of Isu/Njaba/Nkwerre/Nwangele and Ideato North/South Federal Constituencies by Rep Ugonna Ozurigbo and Rep. Paschal Obi respectively. Gbajabiamila, who was represented at the events by the Majority Leader of the House, Rep. Alhassan Ado Doguwa, said the regular empowerment of the constituents has the ultimate potential of lifting a large number of people out of poverty and make them useful to the society. The House Leader was accompanied by the Deputy Whip of the House, Rep. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, Rep. Bello Kaoje (Kebbi), Rep. Bello Nagari (Taraba), Rep. Babangida Alhassan (Kano), Rep. Samaila Suleiman (Kaduna), Rep. Sani Bala (Kano) and Special Assistant to Speaker Gbajabiamila on Legislative Matters, Hon. Nnanna Igbokwe. A former governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, a former governorship candidate in the state, Uche Nwosu, and members of the traditional rulers’ council from the two Federal Constituencies also graced the empowerment programmes. While appreciating the legislative efforts and the economic empowerment of their constituents, Gbajabiamila said the events of the day became worthwhile considering the dire economic situation foisted on Nigerians by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The Speaker urged the beneficiaries to show appreciation by growing their respective trades so that they could empower others. “Aware of our present economic situation, what is happening here today is what has been going on around the entire country by every member of the House of Representatives. “What we are witnessing here today and around the country by members of the House of Representatives is to show that we are not only sensitive but also responsible to the people who have elected us into office.” Gbajabiamila assured that the House will continue to support and complement the policies and programmes of the government at the centre and the states toward resolving socio-political, economic and security challenges confronting the country. Appreciating the Speaker in his remark, Uzorigbo, who was at the third phase of his empowerment programmes presented 60 commercial vehicles to beneficiaries from among his constituents at the Central School Umuozu, Nwagele LGA. He disclosed that the Speaker was instrumental to the inclusion of the City Centre project in the national budget. At the Civic Centre Ogboko, Ideato South LGA, over 300 people were presented with commercial vehicles, motorcycles, sewing machines, grinding machines and household materials, including foams, among several other economic items by Rep. Paschal Obi. Vanguard News Nigeria SPEAKER Yakubu Dogara of the House of Representatives yesterday succumbed to pressures from his All Progressives Congress, APC, and named Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila House Majority Leader, and by that, drew the curtain on the lingering crisis that has trailed the chamber since its inauguration last June. July 29, 2015 In "Headlines" Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, says the 9th National Assembly is irrevocably committed to protecting the interests of the people through diligent discharge of its legislative duties. The Speaker said this on Sunday in Lagos while speaking at the ”Gbaja 2019 End of the Year Grassroots… December 25, 2019 In "News" The only Reps-elect on the Platform of Social Democratic Party(SDP) in the 9th House of Representatives, representing Idanre/Ifedore Federal Constituency of Ondo State,   Alhaji Tajudeen Adversary, also known as Small Alhaji, has promised to mobilize support for Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila across party lines to become Speaker. May 27, 2019 In "News"