Edo State deputy governor, Philip Shaibu yesterday hinted that the 2020 National Sports Festival may not be convenient for the State to host in January. Dr Shaibu said after a tour of the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium Benin City, that the Sports Ministry and the Presidential Task Force on Covid’19 did not consult Edo State, before fixing the January date after the NSF was postponed from the December 3, sparking an uproar by athletes and officials. “We can’t host the National Sports Festival January 3-17, 2021. It is not feasible for us. Not because we are not ready infrastructure and logistics wise, but because it would be coming two days after the New Year festivities.” “We were never consulted in fixing the new date, it was a decision from top to bottom and they were quite insensitive to the feelings of the athletes and officials,” said Shaibu. He called for a meeting of the National Sports Council to meet and chart a new course for the NSF adding that Edo would be ready between March and April 2021. The NSF was originally billed for March 2020, but it was hit by worldwide coronavirus sports postponements. A new date was fixed for December 3-17 and Edo State was ready to implement coronavirus precautions. But the PTF on Covid’19 came out of the blues to announcement another cancellation much to the chagrin of athletes and coaches nationwide.  Vanguard News Nigeria The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has commissioned the secretariat complex for the 2020 National Sports Festival (NSF), as the state government steps up preparations to host the games scheduled to commence from March 20, 2020. The Secretariat is located within the Edo State Government House in Benin City and would… January 29, 2020 In "Sports" As the National Sports Festival draws near, and the host state, Edo, begins a 30-day countdown to the biennial events and the State’s Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, has said the event will be a launchpad to project new athletes for the global stage. Shaibu, who stated that sports facilities have… February 20, 2020 In "Sports" The Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Solomon Dalung, on Tuesday in Abuja inaugurated the Main Organising Committee (MOC) for the 20th National Sports Festival (NSF) tagged “Edo 2020’’. April 24, 2019 In "News"