CitiTrust Holding Plc said it is targeting a debt capital injection of N12.5 billion for business expansion before the end of first quarter in 2021. The company also disclosed its decision to complete the recapitalization of Living Trust Mortgage Bank and upgrading it from a Regional Mortgage Bank to a National Mortgage Bank before the end of first quarter, 2021. This is in line with its plan to pursue industry leadership in Nigeria and other regions where it operates. According to the company, the debt facility would be raised through the subsidiaries. While presenting CitiTrust’s Investment and Strategy Road Map for 2021-2023, at a webinar session organized by the company, its Executive Director, Finance and Strategy, Afolabi Martins, noted that the development would provide a further capital to for expansion across Africa. He said, the debt will have a tenor of thirty-six months and amortizes in nine equal quarterly instalments, beginning on the first anniversary of the debt. Martins equally disclosed that plans are underway to list CFS Nigeria on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) in 2021. “Based on the impressive growth in our loan book, we are poised that these additional funds will enable us to further diversify the earnings base across all subsidiaries. The 3-year plan details our operational shifts as it relates to Finance, Investment & Strategy and International Operation to deliver robust growth by adopting a strategic investment plan and aggressive market penetration. “For our medium targets, much of the financial impact comes from our focus on employing small equity base to create larger capital and investments through liability generation, which we believe are largely in our control. Our ability to achieve mid-teen returns or higher over a horizon of three years or more will come as investments in our businesses,” he stated. FORTE Oil Plc has raised its N9 billion from the capital market to support its operation and drive its expansion strategy. The bond is a 5 year fixed rate issue and the first series of its proposed N50 billion bond issuance programme. According to the company, the funds raised would… November 21, 2016 In "Business" ...As debt service to revenue ratio hits 72% •Analysts, IMF paint picture of threat By Emeka Anaeto, Business Editor and Nkiru Nnorom The ability of the Federal Government (FG) to finance other critical sectors of the economy, especially investing in infrastructural development, will face more set-back over ballooning debt service-to-revenue… October 5, 2020 In "Business" AGAINST the backdrop of economic woes which significantly impacted the Nigerian capital market in 2016 recording zero capital raise, companies quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, have begun to take opportunities occasioned by increased investors’ confidence to raise fresh funds to meet operational and investment needs July 24, 2017 In "Finance"