The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has called on the state government to have a rethink over the cancellation of crossover night celebrations in the state. But CAN Chairman, Bishop Amos Ogunrinde while speaking with Journalists on Monday said the association is having a dialogue with the State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola on the need to allow crossover to take place. The state government had on two different occasions directed security operatives to ensure that carnivals or crossover night did not take place at any place in the state irrespective of those involved. The Government further said, ” The ban on youth carnivals still subsists. Also, all social clubs, hotels, departmental stores, supermarkets, event centers, and allied centres are to henceforth operate at half of their capacities and observe Covid-19 protocols. “Wearing of face Masks at public places is equally compulsory.
However, Ogunrinde said CAN believed that Governor Oyetola would have a change of mind being a listening leader. “CAN leadership is discussing with the state and we are sure it will issue another statement on crossover service. Oyetola is a listening governor and he will issue another very soon you will hear another statement in that regard,” he said Meanwhile, the Muslim community Chairman, Alhaji Mustapha Olawuyi said the intention of the state government was not to create inconvenience for the people but to avoid the spread of the ravaging coronavirus pandemic. He urged the teeming populace to cooperate with the government to ensure that everyone is safe from the pandemic. Vanguard News Nigeria By Shina Abubakar - Osogbo The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has called on Osun state government to have rethink over cancellation of crossover night celebration in the state. The Government further said, ”The ban on youth carnivals still subsists. Also, all social clubs, hotels, departmental stores, supermarkets, event centers… December 28, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Shina Abubakar   Osun State Government on Sunday reiterated its readiness to enforce the directives aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the state. To this end, it cancelled the annual countdown to New Year ceremonies and cross over nights under whatever guise by religious bodies… December 27, 2020 In "News" …22 out of 86 FCT patients in critical condition, receiving oxygen … Lagos shuts 12 facilities for violating safety protocol, set to prosecute offenders …Women Affairs Minister, Pauline Tallen tests positive for COVID-19l NCAA imposes $3,500 fine on airlines that fly passengers without Covid-19 compliance …Issues protocol for passengers originating… December 28, 2020 In "News"