For the second time in about six months, the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) has lauded Nigeria’s leadership role in the quest for security in the Gulf of Guinea (GoG). In a letter addressed to the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, IMO specifically highlighted the agency’s contribution to the war against piracy and maritime crimes in the region, “including facilitation of the Suppression of Piracy and other Maritime Offences (SPOMO) Act, 2019, and initiation of the deep blue project.” It said they were proof of the country’s abiding determination to lead the charge against maritime crimes in the region. According to a statement by the Head, Corporate Communication, NIMASA, Philip Kyanet, Jamoh had earlier, in a virtual address to a meeting of the G7+ Group of Friends of the Gulf of Guinea expressed Nigeria’s resolve to lead efforts to achieve security in the region. He said Nigeria’s strategy against insecurity in the region would be based on home-grown solutions. The statement further stated that Jamoh also sought international cooperation and technical assistance, particularly as regards maritime security strategy and policy development in line with IMO instruments. IMO said: “From the successful enactment of new legislation in the form of the Suppression of Piracy and other Maritime Offences Act, 2019, complete with the forthcoming Guidelines, to the initiation and implementation of the C4i Deep Blue Project, Nigeria continues to demonstrate its leadership in the region with regard to maritime domain awareness and the enhancement of maritime security amongst littoral States. “IMO remains committed to supporting the good work being done by Gulf of Guinea States, such as Nigeria, to improve maritime governance and to enhance maritime security in terms of both current and emerging threats and challenges. It is, therefore, imperative that States adopt a strategic approach, in order to ensure effective implementation and compliance.” A POPULAR African   proverb says the morning determines the day. The morning sets the tone for the rest of the day. And experts say morning habits play a significant role in the success of an individual. That is why Dr. Bashir Jamoh's early steps as Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime… July 22, 2020 In "Maritime Report" AS the maritime security ar chitecture currently being deployed by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, begins to yield results, the International Maritime Organisation, IMO, has reversed its assessment of the nation’s piracy rating to positive. June 10, 2020 In "Business" By Ikenna Asomugha The global community is increasingly acknowledging the accelerated transformation of the country’s maritime sector since the last three years. Gauging the mood of players and stakeholders across the Nigerian maritime industry, there is a generally optimistic view that an unprecedented transformative spirit and pragmatism have, indeed, kicked… March 9, 2020 In "News"