It was all about vainglory and lascivious enticement at the themed premiere of one of the most anticipated movies of the year, ‘Nneka The Pretty Serpent’ as guests stunned the black carpet on Sunday, 13th December at Genesis Cinemas, Palms Mall, Victoria Island. ‘The Seven Deadly Sins’ was the theme of the premiere, and guests showed up dressed as one of the Seven Deadly Sins – Pride (Violet), Wrath (Red), Sloth (Black), Gluttony (Orange), Lust (Blue), Envy (Green) and Greed (Yellow) for the evening. The premiere had a host of entertainment stars in attendance including Adunni Ade, Stephanie Coker, Uti Nwachukwu, Denrele Edun, Omawumi who were all elegantly dressed. Nneka The Pretty Serpent was executively produced by Charles Okpaleke, founder of Play Network Studios, directed by Tosin Igho and produced by Chris Odeh. It is a classic remake of the 1992 Zeb Ejiro film. The remake features breakout star Idia Aisien, Ndidi Obi, Shaffy Bello, Bovi Ugboma, Chioma Akpotha, Kenneth Okolie, Charles Inojie, Keppy Ekpeyong and a host of other A list actors. Nneka The Pretty Serpent’ is a story of deceit, revenge and love. Nneka must avenge her mother’s assassination. On this journey, she discovers innate powers, realizes she has been deceived, stumbles on wealth and has to decide if the mission is worth losing the love of her life for. Can she defeat this diabolical force? The movie garnered a standing ovation from guests at the premiere and reviews have been pouring in ahead of its release in cinemas. Distributed by Genesis pictures, Nneka The Pretty Serpent will be out in cinemas nationwide on the 18th of December 2020. Vanguard News Nigeria By BENJAMIN NJOKU Twenty two years after it ruled the silver screen in the 90s, “Nneka the Pretty Serpent,’ one of the most influential home videos in Nigeria, is set to hit the screen again. Also, hitting the screen is the epic film, “Battle of Musanga”, which has been produced… September 27, 2014 In "Home Video People" It is no longer news that Nneka Moses of the famous Goge Africa, is pregnant. Rather what is news today is the fact that the TV presenter cannot wait to carry her own baby. December 14, 2011 In "Showtime People" For those who are still doubting the news that Tuface Idibia has fianlly propsed marriage to Annie Macaulay, what happened last Friday, at Silberbird Galleria, Victoria Island, Lagos, remained an eye-opener to them. March 3, 2012 In "Home Video People"