The National President and Chairman of Council, the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIOTA), Dr Bashir Yusuf Jamoh, has said that Apapa ports will ease significantly by first quarter 2021 (Q1’21). Speaking at the 2nd National Transport Summit, Annual General Meeting and Governing Council Inauguration held in Abuja, Jamoh, who is also the Director-General Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) said the decongestion would also be enhanced when Lagos to Ibadan train service comes into full operations during the period. He further explained that NIMASA is pursuing full automation to ease operations of the port system. “The issue of digitalization of the port operations is key. NIMASA has achieved 85 percent automation and the Nigerian Shippers Council, NSC, and the Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, are also achieving huge automation of their services.   These, plus other measures, will reduce the pressure on the ports.” Also, the Executive Secretary, the Nigerian Shippers Council, Mr. Hassan Bello said  lack of professionalism in the transport industry is leading to stagnation of the industry. He stated: “Our problem is not multimodalism but the intermodalism, that is the problem. What happens at the sea ports must have relevance with what happens at the hinterland. What we lack is hinterland connectivity with the ports.”   A NEW maritime industry architecture appears to be underway as regulatory authorities begin to draw up inter-agency strategy to address key development issues in the sector. July 8, 2020 In "Business" ONE of the major issues that are likely to occupy the mind of the newly inaugurated Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, is how to return Nigeria to Category C of the International Maritime Organisation, IMO, council seat. Nigeria’s four consecutive attempts to get… June 17, 2020 In "Business" STAKEHOLDERS in the Nigeria’s maritime industry have told the new Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, that they have a vested interest in his administration.C March 25, 2020 In "Business"