MultiChoice Nigeria has announced that it is bringing back the popular music reality show, Nigerian Idol. This announcement was made recently by the company’s Chief Executive Officer- John Ugbe. After a three-year hiatus, Nigerian Idol will return with Season 6 to unearth some of the best musical talents the country has to offer. The Idol franchise has over the years produced some of the biggest Nigerian singers such as Timi Dakolo, Mercy Chinwo, and Omawumi who have gone ahead to make a name for themselves in the global music scene. Speaking on this, the Chief Executive Officer of MultiChoice Nigeria, John Ugbe said, “Nigeria is at the heart of music excellence and we are excited to announce that Nigerian Idol is officially back, starting with the Online Auditions! For us at MultiChoice, it has always been about talent development and giving our subscribers superior content that they can relate to and engage with. Idols is one show with a track record of producing the most popular music idols around the world and we are happy to bring Season 6 of Nigerian Idol to your screens.” Since it made its debut in Nigeria, the Nigerian Idol has been a platform for talent discovery and expression. Online auditions for the new season start on November 29, 2020 and for a limited time. Participants must be between the ages of 16-30, record a 30-second video singing any song and upload the video on africamagic.tv/nigerianidol Vanguard News Nigeria By Ayo Onikoyi MultiChoice, the leading pay TV service provider in Nigeria, recently held its annual Media Showcase which happened virtually for the first time. The MultiChoice Media Showcase took place on Wednesday, September 9, 2020 and was organized to further amplify the company’s promise to continue telling stories that… September 19, 2020 In "Entertainment" Another season of Big Brother Naija is here with its highly anticipated premiere which kicked off last Sunday. This season show packed full with much excitement and cash reward worth N60 million higher than the previous seasons carries quality said a management source of the MultiChoice. July 8, 2019 In "News" Big Brother Naija, Africa’s number one reality television show, is making a highly anticipated return on June 30 and Nigerians all over the world are beyond giddy with excitement. June 23, 2019 In "Entertainment"