Canada and Britain have signed a temporary agreement to avoid an increase in tariffs between the two countries after the British exit from the European Union in early 2021, Ottawa said Tuesday. At the end of November, the two countries announced they had concluded a provisional post-Brexit trade agreement that would reflect, as of January 1, the terms of the deal that Britain benefited from as a member state of the EU. But the agreement could not be ratified before the Canadian parliament went into its winter recess, which would have resulted in an automatic increase in tariffs between the two countries on January 1. The temporary deal allows tariffs between the two countries to remain at current levels until the new trade deal is passed in parliament, a foreign ministry statement said. With the interim agreement, the Canadian government “is making sure businesses can easily continue trading without adding paperwork for businesses and importers,” it said in a statement. “These measures will ensure stability and certainty on both sides of the Atlantic,” it added. Bilateral trade with Britain was worth Can$29 billion (18.5 billion euros) in 2019, according to official government figures. Britain is the main market for Canadian exports to Euro. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria The European Union and Britain decided to plough through yet another self-imposed deadline on Sunday and continue their post-Brexit trade talks, but Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned that no deal is now the most likely scenario. "As things stand, I'm afraid we're still far apart on key things, but where… December 14, 2020 In "Foreign" Prime Minister Boris Johnson will on Wednesday unveil his final Brexit offer to the EU and say that, if Brussels does not engage with it, Britain will stop talking and leave on Oct. 31 regardless. October 2, 2019 In "News" Higher food prices, grounded flights and City job losses: catastrophic predictions of Britain crashing out of the EU with no deal in place abound despite the more upbeat tone from Friday's EU summit. October 20, 2017 In "News"