The Imo state governor, Hope Uzodimma, has said that market structures in the state would be used to boost the Internally Generated Revenue, IGR, of the state. The governor spoke through the commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Simon Ebegbulem, in Owerri, while inaugurating a 16 members caretaker committee of the Imo state Amalgamated Market and Allied Traders Association, ISAMATA, with Emmanuel Ezeanochie, as chairman. The commissioner said that the aim of setting up the ISAMATA, caretaker committee, was to make way for the introduction of the modern reforms for market development and revenue generation. According to him, “A caretaker committee is to pilot the affairs of this body till the next election. We were aware when they wanted to organize an election it created a lot of tension and caused so many issues. “The governor said that he did not like what was happening and there is a need to organize the structures so that it will be easier to execute the reforms needed for market development in the state. “Also, the aim is to drive up our revenue generation capacity. We believe that this leadership will do their best to lay a strong foundation for the development of our markets. “What the government wants to do is to organize the market and make it conducive so that the people will be productive.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Nnamdi Ojiego Governor Hope Uzodinma has been a bastion of hope for Imo State people since his assumption of office on January 15, 2020, more especially, during this critical time when the masses are confronted with the threat of Coronavirus pandemic. Despite unfounded criticisms of his person and personality,… April 19, 2020 In "Viewpoint" President Muhammadu Buhari and governors of the All Progressives Congress, APC, will be part of the campaign flag-off ceremony of the party's governorship candidate in Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodimma in Owerri today. December 21, 2018 In "Politics" The battle of who controls the structure of the Imo state All Progressives Congress, APC, has taken a different dimension with the expulsion of Imo APC governorship candidate, Senator Hope Uzodimma, by Dan Nwafor-led executive. January 24, 2019 In "News"