HUNDREDS of placard-carrying protesters from Ogbe-Ujoh urban communities, Warri South Local Government, Delta State, Tuesday barricaded the main gate of the State Government House Asaba, demanding for a ward in the Local Government Area. The protesters carrying placards with various inscriptions arrived the Government House gate at about 10:30 am. The protesters who chanted Ijaw songs with traditional drum beats, also barricaded the Anwai road leading to the Government House thereby causing traffic gridlock. It, however, took the intervention of men of “Operation Delta Hawk ” to clear the road. This is the third protest by the aggrieved Ogbe- Ijoh people since the creation of 34 new wards by the State Independent  Commission, DSIEC few weeks ago. Speaking to Journalists on behalf of the protesters, a community leader, Mr Friday Deighan decried the exclusion of Ijaw people in the recent ward creation in Warri South Local Government area, lamenting that Warri South council had 19 wards with the Urhobos having nine, the Itsekiiris 10 and the Ijaws none. Saying that it was an act of injustice and aberration to give the only one ward allocated to Warri South council in the recently created wards to the Itsekiris who already had 10 wards, making theirs 11, he called on Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to review the recent ward creation and give them one ward so as to avoid the break down of law and order. Addressing the protesters on behalf of the State Government, the State Commissioner for Urban Development, Chief Arthur Akpowowo, commended them for the peaceful protest. Akpowowo who was flanked by the Commissioner for Oil and Gas, Chief Emmanuel Agbadugba and the Commissioner for Energy, Mr Basil Ganagana, said the protest was legitimate and assured that a delegation of 10 persons from the protesters would be invited to dialogue with government on how to best resolve their grievances. Vanguard News Nigeria ASABA—Over 100 traders at Ogbe-Ijoh market in Warri South Local Government Area, Delta State, yesterday, protested the death of three female traders who allegedly died out of frustration after suspected Ijaw youths allegedly burnt the market. September 14, 2016 In "News" WARRI-HUNDREDS of Itsekiri and Ijaw youths from coastal communities of Warri South and South-West Local Government areas of Delta State, yesterday, protested against oil giant, Pan Ocean Oil Company, operator of the NNPC Joint Venture over allegations of marginalisation and disregard for the Federal Government local content policy. January 24, 2012 In "News" By Francis Efe - Warri Hundreds of youths from Ogbe-Ijoh community in Warri South West on Wednesday stormed the Ogbe-Ijoh market in Warri protesting the appointment of a market master by the Warri South Council Chairman, Dr Michael Tidi. The Ijaw youths who gathered in the early hours of Wednesday… June 24, 2020 In "News"