Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami has directed the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to remove the N20 fee imposed on subscribers for NIN retrieval requests. Pantami said this in a statement signed by his spokesperson, Mrs Uwa Suleiman, on Friday in Abuja. The Minister’s directive which takes immediate effect, was an intervention aimed at making the process easier and affordable. He said that the Executive Vice-Chairman of NCC and the Director General of NIMC, informed him in a letter conveying the implementation of the directive, that the relevant authorities had met and negotiated a waiver with the Mobile Network Operators in that regard. “By this waiver, all Nigerians, subscribers and applicants can access the service using the *346# code for their NIN retrieval at no charge for the duration of the NIN/SIM Card integration exercise,” he said. The Federal Government had earlier directed that National Identification Numbers (NIN) be integrated with Subscriber Identification Modules for security purposes. The Minister appreciated the efforts of all stakeholders and encouraged them to continue sacrificing more for national interest. (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has implemented the new Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) Cards rules in the country. NCC Director of Public Affairs, Dr Ikechukwu Adinde, made this known in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja. Adinde said the implementation followed the earlier directive on the suspension of new SIM… December 15, 2020 In "News" By Emmanuel Elebeke The Minister of the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, has dismissed the claim that the Senate summoned him concerning the role of communication devices in national security. The Minister in a statement made available to media said the claim was… November 26, 2020 In "Technology" By Emmanuel Elebeke Following the earlier directive on the suspension of new SIM registration by network operators, the Federal government has directed all operators in the country to disconnect every SIM card not synchronized with valid National Identity Number (NIN) by December 30th. This came after an urgent meeting of key stakeholders… December 15, 2020 In "News"