While many Namibians have names originating from the ex-colonial power Germany, a newly-elected municipal councillor has overnight romped to prominence not because of his victory but because he is called Adolf Hitler. Adolf Hitler Uunona, 54, a politician of the ruling SWAPO party was last week elected local government councillor for Ompundja constituency in northern Namibia, with 85 percent of the ballots cast. Sounding a tad annoyed, Uunona told AFP on Thursday he was perplexed that people were intrigued by his being named after one of the world’s most notorious dictators. He refused to discuss the reasons he was named Adolf Hitler. “I am not going to entertain the conversation, there is no reason we should be sitting here, having an entire conversation about my name,” he retorted. “You really want us to have an entire conversation about my name? How will that make Namibia a better country, how will it contribute to the development of our country?” Uunona asked when contacted by an AFP journalist. Germany colonised Namibia — then South West Africa — from 1884 to 1915. After World War I, the League of Nations mandated South Africa to administer the territory as a protectorate which ruled for 75 years. German occupiers in Namibia killed tens of thousands of indigenous Herero and Nama people in massacres from 1904 to 1908, which historians have called the first genocide of the 20th century. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria By Owei Lakemfa GENERAL Francisco Franco, the  fascist who was dictator of Spain for 33 years, from March 28, 1939 until his death on November 20, 1975, is lucky to have a grave. This is why his family had the basis to protest against the exhumation of his corpse on… November 1, 2019 In "News" TURKISH leader, Tayyip Erdogan decided to change his country’s ceremonial Presidency to an executive one. So he told his countrymen: “There are already examples in the world. You can see it when you look at Hitler’s Germany. There are later examples in various other countries”. But he came under international… January 22, 2016 In "Owei Lakemfa" Adolf Hitler's admiration for German composer Richard Wagner is well-documented, but that the Nazi dictator attempted to write an opera himself will come as a surprise to many. Nevertheless, a page of the work, entitled "Wieland der Schmied" (Wieland the Smith), goes on display to the public for the first… February 28, 2020 In "News"