Boko Haram has Thursday released a video showing the abducted Kankara schoolboys. The video obtained by SaharaReporters, which lasted for 4 minutes 8 seconds, had Abu Muhammed, Abubakar Bin Muhammed Shekar, the leader of Jamatu  Ahlis Sunnah Lid Da’wah Wul Jihad, took responsibility of the invasion and abduction of over 300 students of Government Science Secondary School in Kankara Local Government Area of Katsina State. His statement contradicted the submission of the Katsina State governor, Aminu Bello Masari, who yesterday opined that the perpetrators are local bandits roaming the forests of Zamfara and Katsina and not Boko Haram. However, Abu Muhammed speaking further in the video, gave reason for the abduction. He said that the act was carried out so that “Our religion will rise and disbelief will fall”. He noted that Western education is not for the sake of Allah and his messenger and what is being taught is not for the sake of Allah and his messenger. He noted that they have not killed anyone, but whoever they will kill must have rejected their religion. Watch video below: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Details later: Vanguard News Nigeria Boko Haram recruited three local gangs in to kidnap hundreds of schoolboys on its behalf in Katsina, security and local sources said Wednesday. The jihadist group has claimed responsibility for Friday's attack, which targeted a secondary school in the town of Kankara, in Katsina state. But sources told AFP the… December 16, 2020 In "Metro" Few hours after governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State claimed that the state and the kidnappers of students from Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, have been in talks, Boko Haram on Tuesday claimed it was behind the abduction of the hundreds of students. The Governor, who according to a… December 15, 2020 In "News" *Boko-Haram used local gangs to kidnap students — sources *We'll be in Kankara school until our children return home — Parents *FG hasn't learnt from previous kidnaps— CAN *Coalition of Northern Groups moves to Katsina *No sleep until the students are rescued; Buhari safe in Katsina — DHQ By Kingsley… December 17, 2020 In "News"