The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), yesterday, said the pressure on income might limit household investments on education and health services for family members. In its COVID-19 National Longitudinal Phone Survey (NLPS) for October 2020, the Bureau stated: “If household income continues to be precarious, this may limit the investments households are able to make in education and health services for their members, even if schools fully reopen and the government supports more testing and vaccination. “While the share of respondents who were working remained stable in October 2020 (at 87 percent of respondents), the sixth round of the NLPS provides further evidence that income remains precarious for many households. “Of the 84 percent of households that operated a non-farm enterprise at any point in 2020, around 22 percent were not operating their businesses in October 2020. The vast majority of these non-farm enterprises that are currently closed had been open at some point since the start of the COVID-19 crisis, indicating that businesses that may have, at some point, resumed operations were not viable enough to continue. “Although school closure is the main reason why school-aged household members were not attending school across all consumption quintiles, lack of money is the remains an important reason among individuals from the poorest households (16 percent of those not attending). “Those school-aged household members who report that they are currently awaiting admission predominantly come from the richest households (27 percent of those not attending), perhaps reflecting the better prospects for higher levels of educational attainment for individuals from richer households.” By Elizabeth Adegbesan THE National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) survey on the economic well being of ordinary Nigerians has indicated a mixed condition with a rise in food insecurity while improvement in working population is reported last month. NBS survey was against the prevailing impact of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on… July 15, 2020 In "Business" This week we are sharing the findings of the third round of COVID-19 Impact Monitoring, a telephone survey conducted by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) with support from the World Bank. The bureau contacted the same 1,950 Nigerian households in April/May, between 02 and 16 June, and now between… August 28, 2020 In "News" By Sola Ogundipe Despite the share of people in gainful employment rising substantially since the lifting of the COVID-19 lockdown in Nigeria, many Nigerians are yet to regain full employment even as the food security situation in the country has substantially worsened since the beginning of the pandemic, a survey… July 16, 2020 In "News"