The Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State, Dr Sikirulai Ogundele, has emerged as the chairman of the PDP chairmen in the six states of the south-west zone. Dr. Ogundele was announced to lead PDP State chairmen in the South-West after the meeting of the Zonal Caretaker Committee and the State Chairmen held in Abeokuta. Apart from seven members of the zonal caretaker committee, chairmen of Lagos, Ogun, Osun and Ekiti States, Engr Adedeji Doherty, Ogundele, Hon. Sunday Bisi and Chief Bisi Kolawole respectively attended the meeting. A statement on Wednesday made available to Vanguard in Ibadan by the South-West Zonal Director of Media and Publicity of the PDP, Lere Olayinka, said Dr Ogundele was made the chairman of the chairmen based on his proven records of commitment to the party. He said the position of the chairman of chairmen was to ensure proper coordination, as the zone will be able to present a common front on national issues. Ogundele was a member of the Ogun State House of Assembly between 1999 and 2007. He was also chairman of Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State. He has also sought to the ticket of the PDP to contest the governorship in Ogun State twice. In his reaction, Dr Ogundele thanked his colleagues for the honour, privilege and trust reposed in him, promising to be a team player and assuring all stakeholders of purposeful leadership. He said he will ensure the supremacy of the party over and above any individual or group, adding that he will use his position to project the party positively and make sure that no one will be allowed to undermine the party. Vanguard News Nigeria Disowns Oyinlola's reconciliation committee By Adeola Badru THE Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Southwest zonal caretaker committee has suspended its chairman, Dayo Ogungbenro, for negligence of duty, saying he has failed to call any meeting since he was appointed. Seven out of the 12 members in the caretaker committee, who suspended… December 14, 2020 In "Politics" By James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta Former Governor of Ekiti State, Mr Ayodele Fayose, has warned the Oyo State governor, Engr Seyi Makinde to steer clear of party structures in all the states in the Southwest region of the country. Fayose, who gave the warning in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital,… September 10, 2020 In "Politics" Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State, continued his verbal onslaught against President Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, as he demanded immediate return of his N10 million donation to his presidential library project with interest. March 7, 2017 In "News"