Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma, has appealed to Ndigbo, to unite and effectively begin to plan how to win the 2023 presidency. Uzodimma spoke during the post-presentation thanksgiving service of Archbishop David Onuoha, at St. Paul’s Anglican Cathedral, Ezeoke Nsu, Ehime Mbano local council area of the state. His words: “Ideas rule the world. We (Ndigbo) must all come together now and begin to effectively plan to win. The only war that succeeds now, is diplomacy. “We have been challenged as a people and we must face it squarely. The modern world is interested in results. It is not enough to fight, but after the fight, the most important question is: Did you win?” It was his considered view that God endowed Ndigbo with what he called “very robust knowledge, to the extent that on a normal day and under a normal situation, it will be difficult for those people, who today, think that they are of great advantage over us, to compete with our people, in terms of knowledge and practical endeavours.” Reiterating his earlier submission that Ndigbo must sit back and plan, Governor Uzodimma added that Ndigbo not only needs a road map but also need to know the road that will lead them to their destination. He said: “We act and work towards our target. You must trust me. I know the challenges. I know where things have gone wrong and where things must be corrected. Besides, we need a very courageous and bold action and I can offer one. “So, when at the end of the day, we sit back and begin to count our gains and losses, you will see clearly that there is a reason why God made me a Governor at this time in our life.” Dignitaries that graced the event included the Minister of State, Education, Sir Emeka Nwajiuba, former governor of Anambra State, Mr Peter Obi, some members of the State Executive Council. Vanguard News Nigeria Intellectuals from the South-East were recently challenged to dispassionately analyse the issue at stake in the 2019 elections and come up with a blue print that should guide Ndigbo in arriving at the best Northern candidate to vote for in the election. June 9, 2018 In "News" It was a religious gathering. A conference of Christian Mothers of the Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion. April 21, 2018 In "Interview" The declaration of Sen. Hope Uzodimma (Imo West) for the All Progressive Congress (APC) has set Imo State agog as many stakeholders were rallying round him in solidarity for saying at the declaration ceremony that he would push for a better accommodation of the South-East in the APC led Federal… April 28, 2018 In "News"