Hello @PoliceNG, I am calling for the immediate arrest of Mr. Pius Angbo of @channelstv for physically assaulting  Dr. Ifeanyinwa Angbo, a medical doctor in Owerri. This woman just had a baby 4weeks ago and she got beaten up by her reckless husband. pic.twitter.com/EFsU9SxIxq — Olúyẹmí Fásípè  (@YemieFASH) December 6, 2020  The feud between Benue State Correspondent of Channels Television, Mr Pius Angbo and his wife, Doctor Ifeyinwa Angbo that went viral on social media at the weekend has been resolved by Governor Samuel Ortom. The Governor who met with the couple Monday morning in his Makurdi residence admonished them to always settle their differences amicably and shun the temptation of engaging in violence and by so doing bring each other to disrepute. The Governor advised that as a young couple with great potentials, the husband being a versatile journalist and the wife a medical doctor, there was the need for them to foster a strong union to serve as a model for others to emulate. Mr Angbo in a reaction said he had apologised to his wife over the assault on her, stressing that he also sought the forgiveness of the entire women folks assuring that he would make amends going forward. His wife, on her part, said she had accepted her husband’s apology and forgiven him, saying their children were still tender and they needed prayers to grow stronger in love and be able to nurture their kids to maturity. She appreciated Governor Ortom for taking time out of his very tight schedule to make peace between them, saying the Governor’s intervention was fatherly and a demonstration of his love for her family. Vanguard News Nigeria Over 500 indigent Benue women have been trained in various skills, arts and craft and empowered to start up businesses of their own by the Eunice Spring of Life Foundation, ESLF, a pet project of the Wife of the state Governor, Dr. Eunice Ortom. October 29, 2018 In "News" Makurdi—Wife of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, presidential candidate, Mrs. Titi Abubakar, has said her husband, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, would end frequent clashes between herders and farmers that have led to killings and destruction of property in Benue State, if elected president. February 5, 2019 In "News" Makurdi—TWENTY cancer patients in Benue State are currently receiving free medical services and treatment courtesy of the Eunice Spring of Life Foundation, ESLF, the pet project of the wife of the Benue State Governor, Dr. Eunice Ortom. June 5, 2018 In "News"