Following the December 8 meeting of the National Executive Committee NEC of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC which dissolved all party structures, leaders of the party from the South-South are set for a crucial meeting to review its status in the scheme of things. NEC had among other resolutions approved the immediate dissolution of all party organs from the polling units, wards, local governments, states, zonal to national levels. Those affected at the national level were national officers often referred to as the non National Working Committee component of the NEC. However, the NEC meeting approved their immediate reconstitution and composition to serve in their respective offices in a caretaker committee capacity, even as the the non-NWC members of NEC were excluded from serving in that capacity. While NEC extended the tenure of the Gov. Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC by another six months, it endorsed the expulsion of Ntufam Hilliard Eta from the party for violating the directive to discontinue all forms of litigations against the party. Vanguard learned that the meeting of the South South leaders which is scheduled for Tuesday in Abuja would be looking at some of the resolutions of the NEC. Specifically, the meeting will discuss the possibility of retaining the office of the National Chairman of the party in the South South until June 2022 when the office would be re-zoned to the North. Our correspondent gathered that the meeting being convened by the National Secretary of the party, Sen. John Akpanudoedehe and a former deputy governor of Edo state, Chief Lucky Imasuen is expected to have in attendance the leader of the party for the zone and deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege. Other leaders expected to attend are two former National Chairmen of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as well as the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire. Others are Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Godswill Akpabio, Minister of state Labour, Mr Festus Keyamo, former Governor of Cross River State, Mr Clement Ebri, Sen. Victor Ndoma-Egba, Minister of state, Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, Transport minister, Rotimi Amaechi, Sen. Magnus Abe, Prince Malik Afegbua, Mr Wabilly Nyiam and over 100 others. Meanwhile, there is growing concern about some political tendencies in the party following the extension of the tenure of the CECPC by six months. Originally, its six-month mandate was slated to end by December 25, 2020 but with the extension, the committee’s tenure will now end by 30th June, 2020. A party source told Vanguard that many of those who were jostling for the national chairmanship of the party have now recoiled, ostensibly to re-strategize. “There were many of them eyeing the seat. We had one from Borno, one from Edo, another from Zamfara and the other one from Cross River. There were others who were careful not to make their ambitions known. No one can say exactly if the zoning formula for party offices would be tinkered with by next year. So, everyone is just strategizing and trying to reposition. “The main focus is the membership registration and revalidation. We need to ensure that our members file out to participate in the exercise because numbers would also determine some things in the party”, said a party source. ‘Don’t allow selfish individuals kill APC’ On its part, a group within the party, ‘The Concerned APC members’ frowned at the dissolution of party structures and the tenure extension granted the CECPC, urging President Muhammadu Buhari not to allow selfish individuals destroy the party. Spokesman of the group, Abdullahi Dauda, said; “The pronouncement by our party’s NEC did not come to us as a surprise, we knew about the plot long before today. We wish to say it is the beginning of another long journey for our party. If those who have hijacked the party think they can frustrate us out of a party so many people came together to build, they should think again because we are not leaving. We as loyal members of this great party will continue to ask our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari not to allow a few selfish individuals misguide him into taking actions that will destroy this party”. Vanguard News Nigeria …Dissolves party organs at all levels, grants Umahi, others waivers …Buhari’s NEC meeting illegal, can’t expel me – Eta By Clifford Ndujihe, Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Omeiza Ajayi & Dirisu Yakubu THE  Nation al Executive Committee, NEC, of the All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday, approved the extension of the tenure of the… December 9, 2020 In "Politics" Reasons President Muhammadu Buhari moved against the suspended National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, emerged last night, as the  National Executive Committee, NEC, wielded the big stick to check the crisis ravaging the party and avert what the President described as self-destruction. June 26, 2020 In "Politics" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru THE National Executive Committee, NEC, of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Tuesday, approved the extension of the tenure of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, for another six months. This is as the APC NEC, also approved expulsion of the party's former National… December 8, 2020 In "News"