 A father whose 13-year-old son was among the students abducted in a boarding school in Katsina State has told the BBC Hausa service that he was worried because his son might be hungry and thirsty in the bush. He, however, expressed hope that the military has gone inside the bushes in search of the students. “We don’t have any cogent information about the students. I have a son, he is 13 years old in form one going to two. Till date, we’ve no information about my son that is pleasant. We are worried, he may be hungry, thirsty. “But we’ve seen the steps taken by the government, we saw the security agents going into the bushes. We hope they will rescue our children, in good health,” he said. Similarly, a mother told the BBC Hausa that she was finding it hard to stand on her feet due to the trauma of missing her child. She prayed that Almighty Allah will give the state governor the wisdom to solve the security problem in the state. However, a security analyst, Barrister Bulama Bukarti, told the BBC Hausa that the latest abduction of the students in Katsina had shown that the government had not learned a lesson from previous experiences in Chibok and Dapchi. He said police presence in Katsina was grossly inadequate, pointing out that only 2 policemen were stationed to provide security in the affected boarding school at Kankara. Vanguard News Nigeria By Bashir Bello, Dirisu Yakubu, Gabriel Olawale, Charly Agwam & Olayinka Latona Protests yesterday rocked Kankara in Kankara Local Government Area of Katsina State, following the abduction of students of Government Senior Secondary School, GSSS, in the town by bandits on Friday night. The protests came on a day governor… December 14, 2020 In "News" Immediately they passed, some of their people in the bush opened fire on my son and his friends and they died on the spot. I have been to the Area Commander’s office and they said they were investigating the matter March 25, 2018 In "News" *We rescued 200—Police *Over 406 found – Commissioner *Masari closes all schools *Buhari orders army, police to go after attackers *Atiku faults security agencies’ style By Bashir Bello There was confusion, yesterday, over the actual number of students kidnapped  at  Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Kankara Local Government Area… December 13, 2020 In "News"