Dr Joe Nworgu, former Secretary General of Ohaneze Ndigbo says Ohaneze might lose its potence as voice for Igbos if politicians are allowed to interfere in the January 2021 elections. Nworgu told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in a telephone interview on Friday in Awka that article 11 of Ohaneze spelt out methods and persons qualify for president general and secretary general positions. Ohaneze, the apex Igbo socio-culutural organisation through Imeobi, the highest policy making organ cedes positions to five South-East states of Abia, Ebonyi, Enugu, Anambra and Imo as well as Igbo speaking parts of Rivers and Delta. Nworgu said it was very clear that Imo would produce the next president general of Ohaneze slated for January, 2021, saying  “all we are waiting is for the Imeobi to meet on December 6, and come up with guidelines for the election. “While we wait for the guidelines, I want to state that I am contesting for the position of president general as Imo State indigene. “My stand as it affects next Ohaneze election and the position of president general is that nobody can be sole candidate for that post in a state with the slot. “The Constitution stipulated that at least three persons from a state can contest the positions of president or secretary generals. “Imo State Government is at liberty to support any candidate of her choice, but that does not mean that other persons from the state cannot contest,” he said. Nworgu noted that if other interested parties are made to forgo their interest, it would result to denying other constitute states the right to choose a candidate of their choice. Nworgu, who was deputy secretary general between 2000 and 2003 as well as secretary general between 2013 and 2017, said there are indications already that people outside Igbo tribe are showing open support  on someone for the president general position. “The clear interest of people outside Igbo race on who leads Ohaneze is a very dangerous sign to the future of the body as a voice for our people. “If we want other tribes to dictate for us, so be it, but that would mean bringing down the rating of Ohaneze from the present height the present leadership by Chief John Nwodo has taken the body to,” he said. NAN gathered that the following persons: Mike Okiro,  former Inspector General of Police (retired), Prof. George Obiozor, Dr Joe Nworgu, Chief Chris Asoluka, Chief Goddy Uwazuruike and Prof. B Osuagwu all from Imo have interest in number one position of Ohaneze. Vanguard News Nigeria One thing that was clear was that Ohaneze had consistently said it was more at home with a political party that favours the restructuring of the country in such a way that every ethnic nationality would have a sense of belonging. Of all the political parties contesting the 2019 presidential… January 30, 2019 In "Politics" Enugu—THE meeting of Igbo leaders summoned yesterday by the South East Governors’ Forum, SEGF, to discuss the security implications of the agitations by members of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, and the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, ended in Enugu with the leaders… November 23, 2015 In "News" The Ohaneze Ndigbo, the apex pan-Igbo socio-cultural group, says it is not in a haste to endorse any presidential candidate for the Feb.16 Presidential Election. January 12, 2019 In "News"