The Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen has tested positive for COVID-19 after a routine test conducted on her and members of the family. According to a post on her Twitter handle @PaulineKTallen, the minister said she was asymptomatic but was advised to go for the test. The tweet stated: “Following interaction with individuals that later showed asymptomatic signs of COVID-19, I was advised by my medical team to undergo the test and self isolate for observation over the past few days.· “This is to inform the general public that after personally undergoing a test as well as members of my family, my result returned positive while that of members of my family tested negative. This is to inform the general public that after personally undergoing a test as well as members of my family, my result returned positive while that of members of my family tested negative. — Dame Pauline K. Tallen OFR, KSG (@PaulineKTallen) December 27, 2020 “Currently, I am asymptomatic and have gone into isolation for the period of treatment. Please keep me in your prayers and I implore you all to stay safe and observe all COVID19 protocols as we grapple with this pandemic. “I urge you all to please take responsibility for yourselves and family in order to protect our dear country even more at this time,” the minister urged. Vanguard News Nigeria The Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs Pauline Tallen, on Tuesday, said that out of the 36 states in the country, 11 states had yet to domesticate the Child Rights Act which was passed into law in 2003. She made this known during a public hearing in Abuja organised by the… October 14, 2020 In "News" ABUJA — Influential Chief of Staff to President Mohammed Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari, has reportedly tested positive to the rampaging Coronavirus that is currently wreaking havoc in the country, forcing some state  governors to either put their states on lock down or threaten to do so. March 25, 2020 In "News" Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, and Chairman, Presidential Task Force PTF on COVID-19, Mr. Boss Mustapha, has gone into self-isolation after some members of his family tested positive for the virus. December 13, 2020 In "News"