Afghanistani authorities on Saturday said the incessant attacks on civilians by the militant group, Taliban, have culminated in the death of more than 480 civilians in the past three months. Tariq Arian, the spokesman for the Afghan interior ministry, said this in a statement. Arian said the Taliban’s attacks on civilians were unjustifiable, and the militants were committing war crimes. “Over the past three months, the Talibans have killed 487 of our civilians and injured 1,049 others through 35 suicide attacks and 507 bomb blasts. “The killing of civilians is a war crime and can never be justified,” he added. “At least, 15 civilians were killed and 20 others were injured following a bomb blast in the eastern Afghan province of Ghazni on Friday alone. “Less than two months earlier, at least, 24 people died in a suicide bombing outside an education centre in the country’s capital, Kabul,” he said. The continued violence in Afghanistan is taking place amid peace negotiations between the government and Taliban in the Qatari capital, Doha. The talks began in September following the completion of a prisoner exchange process. A recess is currently in effect to give both sides the opportunity to hold internal meetings on agenda items. (ANI/Sputnik/NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria More than 2,200 Afghan civilians were killed in Taliban-related attacks and bomb blasts during 2019, the Afghan Interior Ministry confirmed on Saturday. “During 2019, Taliban terrorists conducted scores of suicide attacks, improvised explosive device (IED) explosions and guerrilla attacks. “And the attacks left 7,391 civilians killed and injured nationwide during… January 4, 2020 In "Foreign" A car bomb attack on a U.S. convoy in the Afghan capital on Friday, wounded four U.S. service members and killed at least four Afghan civilians, officials said, in the second attack in the city in two days. May 31, 2019 In "News" A suicide bomber killed six civilians in an attack near an Afghan intelligence agency compound in Kabul Monday in the latest assault claimed by the Islamic State group in the capital. December 25, 2017 In "News"