The Kremlin on Monday denied any role in recent cyberattacks on the United States, saying American accusations that Russia was behind a major security breach lacked evidence. US lawmakers over the weekend urged a tough response to a huge cyber attack on government agencies and criticised US President Donald Trump’s unwillingness to point the finger at Russia which has been widely blamed for the hack. President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the public debate in Washington about the breaches “has nothing to do with us”. “Russia is not involved in these attacks,” Peskov told reporters Monday. The attackers managed to breach computer networks using enterprise management network software made by the Texas-based IT company SolarWinds. US government agencies including the Treasury were among those reportedly affected, but it also hit targets worldwide with the list of victims still emerging, researchers say. “Any accusations of Russia’s involvement are absolutely unfounded and are a continuation of blind Russophobia,” Peskov said. The Kremlin has previously denied US claims that Russian intelligence was behind cyberattacks targeting Ukraine’s power grid, the 2017 French election and the 2018 Winter Olympic Games among other hacks. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria The Kremlin on Monday refuted accusations of Russia’s involvement in hacker attacks during the U.S. 2016 presidential election, saying that it was a “tiresome witch-hunt.’’ January 9, 2017 In "News" The world's biggest ransomware attack levelled off on Monday after wreaking havoc in 150 countries and causing political acrimony, with Russian President Vladimir Putin blaming US intelligence services. May 15, 2017 In "News" Britain and the United States on Thursday accused Russian military intelligence of orchestrating a "reckless" campaign of cyber attacks against Georgia last year. The allegations follow the hacking of some 2,000 websites in the former Soviet republic, including those of the president, courts, and media, in a massive cyberattack in… February 20, 2020 In "Foreign"