For its continued efforts towards ensuring the protection of customer funds and data,  Global Finance, in its 29th annual World’s Safest Banks rankings, has named Access Bank Plc the ‘Safest Bank’ in Nigeria for the year 2020. Global Finance’s  annual rankings of the World’s Safest Banks have been the recognised and trusted standard of financial counterparty safety for more than a quarter-century. The Safest Banks by Country were selected through an evaluation of long-term foreign currency ratings – from Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch – and the total assets of the 1000 largest banks worldwide. Commenting on the recognition, Herbert Wigwe, the Chief Executive Officer, Access Bank Plc, said: “Throughout 2020, financial institutions all over the world have been faced with peculiarities in safeguarding the finances and data of customers. Through this, Access Bank has remained steadfast in its commitment to ensuring that the finances of customers are protected and the data confidentiality of all stakeholders is maintained. This recognition serves as an encouragement for us to build on our successes and invest even more in digitally-led measures that will position us as the World’s Most Respected African bank. Joseph Giarraputo, publisher and editorial director of  Global Finance, said: “For most of 2020, the world has been lashed by the COVID-19 pandemic, a steep drop in economic activity and, in some cases, serious social unrest. Any of these developments could have significantly impacted banks’ credit worthiness. Surprisingly, however, the relative position of the world’s largest banks on Global Finance’s World’s Safest Banks 2020 lists has been mostly stable. One can only speculate on when, or if, the changes will come. In the meantime, the rankings will be used by companies, investors and individuals to gauge the relative safety of the banks with which they choose to do business.” As part of its efforts to safeguard the investments and savings of customers, Access Bank introduced the *901*911# – a self-service USSD that enables customers to deactivate their accounts using any alternative phone number should the registered phone be lost or stolen. This gives account holders full autonomy to safeguard their funds before official reports are directed to the bank. Access Bank Plc Group Managing Director, GMD/CEO, Mr Herbert Wigwe in this interview at the just concluded 30th Annual General Meeting, AGM held in Lagos spoke on the concerns raised by shareholders regarding dividend payout, capital raising, green bond issuance, merger with Diamond Bank Plc, the banks’ financial performance among… May 27, 2019 In "Business" Access Bank Plc Group Managing Director, GMD/CEO, Mr Herbert Wigwe in this interview at the just concluded 30th Annual General Meeting, AGM held in Lagos spoke on the concerns raised by shareholders regarding dividend payout, capital raising, green bond issuance, merger with Diamond Bank Plc, the banks’ financial performance among… May 20, 2019 In "Business" The mention of First Bank of Nigeria Plc and two other Nigerian banks in the World Banking Brands Ranking, released by the Banker Magazine of the Financial Times of London group and Brand Finance, is a signal of the strength of Nigerian banks and stability in the Nigerian banking sector… March 4, 2013 In "Finance"