Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello has reiterated his stand not to engage in any negotiation with criminals either bandits, kidnappers or terrorists, noting that such stand was a key ingredient in Kogi State’s fight against insecurity. The Governor made this known on Wednesday while responding to questions on security in the North Central Region on Channels TV, Sunrise Daily, monitored by Vanguard reporter. On reason for his statement, the governor gave an instance of a particular amnesty offered to a renowned bandit group in Nassarawa state after a particular top politician assured of the genuineness of the group’s repentance adding that the group, unfortunately, reneged on their promise and were currently wreaking havoc in communities within that region. He pointed out that strong political will was required to tackle security challenges of any type and the steps his administration took in a state bedevilled with security challenges was to deal ruthlessly with crime perpetrators and their sponsors. Governor Bello added that security was not only the responsibility of the Nigerian Army, the police and other security operatives but community ownership must also be instilled to facilitate trust and active participation of the people in their own security and safety, particularly intelligence sharing. He alluded that the resolution of the North Central Governor to establish military barracks was in a bid to further strengthen the existing effective security architecture in the region adding that such barracks would be a designated training location for the military operatives where also special forces could be easily deployed for operations. The Governor stated that it was a common practice by politicians who aspired political offices to engage the services of thugs to help intimidate their opposition adding that when the political season was over these people were often abandoned by their employers. He mentioned also that many of these people venture in several criminal activities and become a thorn in the flesh of the state, pointing out that while seeking office, he refused to indulge in such dangerous politics in the interest of the people of the state. The Governor reaffirmed that there was no gainsaying in his earlier comments alleging selfish politicians at all levels as saboteurs of security and safety of the country and the citizens. Vanguard News Nigeria By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja Amid the rising wave of banditry and other crimes in some parts of the North, Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello has reiterated his earlier position not to negotiate with criminal elements, saying recent history has shown that criminal gangs often take advantage of such official gesture… December 23, 2020 In "News" Alarmed by the activities of terrorists and kidnappers in the state, Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, Wednesday, stormed some property in Okene Local Government Area of the state and got them demolished as a demonstration of his administration’s determination to rid the state of criminals. March 15, 2017 In "Crime Guard" Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has reiterated his determination to sustain his fight against insecurity in the state, saying his administration will be “ruthless against the hotbed of crimes”. December 1, 2017 In "News"