Gov. Abubakar Bello of Niger has condemned recent attack by bandits on some communities of Maitumbi and Kuchi in Bosso and Munya local government areas of the state Bello, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mrs Mary Noel-Berje, in Minna on Monday decried the incessant activities of the gunmen and urged the people to support government efforts aimed at identify and dislodging the criminals. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that about 20 people were allegedly abducted by the bandits, numbering over 50, when they attacked communities in the two areas leaving scores injured in the process. He appealed to residents of the state to cooperate with security agencies by providing necessary intelligence that would lead to the arrest of the perpetrators of such heinous act. Bello disclosed that the recent meeting of the North Central State Governors in Makurdi, provided ideas and offered new approaches in dealing with the issue of banditry in the region. He added that both the states and Federal government were doing their best to restore order in the affected states. The governor gave the assurance of governments logistical support to the security agencies and enjoined them to brace up to their responsibilities through collaborative intelligence sharing. He condoled with the families of those who lost their lives in recent attacks and directed the State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA) to attend to the injured as well as those taking refuge at the Maitumbi Primary School. (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria Minna—Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State, has raised the alarm and alerted citizens of the state to be watchful and vigilant to ensure that fleeing armed bandits being dislodged from Kaduna and Zamfara states do not find their way into the state. September 3, 2018 In "News" The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has assured the Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, of the commitment of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to ensuring the safety and security of the people of Niger State, working in concert with sister Services and other… February 25, 2020 In "News" Gov. Sani Bello of Niger has appealed to residents of Kagara town in Rafi Local Government Area to remain calm, as the government was deploying resources at its disposal to ensure the protection of their lives and property. September 5, 2020 In "News"