As the WBA (Super), IBF, WBO, and IBO World Heavyweight champion, Anthony Joshua, goes head-to-head against Kubrat Pulev, his mandatory challenger in the fight tomorrow night, former British and Commonwealth Light-Heavyweight boxing champion, Peter Oboh, has warned Joshua not to be complacent. The British boxer will be in action today (Saturday) for the first time since he beat Andy Ruiz Jr in Saudi Arabia to regain the WBA, WBO and IBF belts, which he had lost to the same opponent at Madison Square Garden in June 2019. Read more at: https://www.vanguardngr.com/2020/12/anthony-joshua-ready-to-go-to-final-bell-against-pulev/ Oboh who, like Joshua fought under the Union Jack as a British boxer, reckoned that although Pulev had age as a disadvantage, “but it could well turn out as a factor in his favour,” if the Anglo-Nigerian fighter took things for granted. “I am warning Joshua,” he stated. “He must not underrate Pulev. Joshua must approach the fight with all seriousness because the outcome of this fight would mean a lot to his career path. It will either make him or break him.” However, Oboh, who also held WBA Inter-Continental Light Heavyweight title between 2002 and 2004, said he was sure Joshua would carry the day. He reasoned: “Although the coronavirus has impacted so much on his training schedule, Joshua is a more accomplished boxer and on current form, he is the better boxer and should beat Pulev.” He advised Joshua to look back and remember how the likes of Henry Cooper, Frank Bruno and Lennox Lewis, all British boxers who either lost their crowns or failed when it mattered most, learned when it was too late. Vanguard News Nigeria By Jacob Ajom The WBO, IBF, WBF and WBA heavyweight boxing champion, Anthony Joshua has been advised not to bow to pressure and go ahead with a mandatory defence fight against Bulgarian heavyweight champion and IBF number one contender Kubrat Pulev. Rather, Joshua should let go his IBF title and… January 19, 2020 In "Sports" By Jacob Ajom Former British and Commonwealth boxing champion, Peter Oboh has predicted that heavyweight champion of the world, Anthony Joshua would beat his challenger, Kubrat Pulev in their December 12 IBF mandatory fight at the O2 Arena, London. Speaking on the impending fight, the first by Joshua since reclaiming… November 14, 2020 In "Sports" By Jacob Ajom Former British and Commonwealth Lightheavyweight champion, Peter Oboh has advised world heavyweight champion, Anthony Joshua, to come to terms with international boxing politics and play along. Amidst the controversy surrounding the mandatory defence fight ordered by the IBF between the champion, Anthony Joshua and the number one… January 6, 2020 In "News"