As a new strain of COVID-19 is reported in the United Kingdom, the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has insisted that travellers must obey travel protocol, as the country awaits further guidance from the World Health Organisation, WHO. Also in a series of tweets on the Agency’s official Twitter handle, the NCDC disclosed that they are currently studying the data in Nigeria, while awaiting directions from WHO on new strains causing COVID-19. According to the tweets, “Travellers must test before travel, self isolate for seven days, get tested day 7 after arrival and avoid mixing with people & public settings until completed. “We must all #TakeResponsibility to limit the spread of #COVID19 during the Christmas & New Year festivities, limit all non-essential travel especially from high-risk countries, limit person-to-person contact and always wear a face mask.” The NCDC in the tweets also noted that the country, on Sunday, discharged 115 community recoveries in Kaduna State and 104 community recoveries in Lagos State managed in line with guidelines. Till date, Nigeria has recorded 77,933 confirmed cases, 67,784 discharged and 1,218 deaths across the 36 states of the Federation including the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Abuja. Vanguard News Nigeria ...Seals Cubana nightclub, others for flouting guidelines ....NCDC insists travellers must obey protocol By Chioma Obinna, Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Government, yesterday, dismissed insinuation of plans to impose a second lockdown on the state, describing it as baseless and untrue. This came as the state special task force on COVID-19… December 21, 2020 In "News" As the Nigerian airspace opens up gradually for international travels, measures have been put in place to ensure the safety of all passengers entering or leaving Nigeria as the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic rages on. Such measures include the launch of the Nigerian International Travel Portal(NITP) by the Presidential… October 12, 2020 In "News" The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), has appealed for the cooperation of all returning travellers by adhering to COVID-19 protocols to ensure that no positive case was imported into the country. The Head of Department, Surveillance and Epidemiology Department, NCDC, Elsie Ilori, made the appeal at the Presidential Tasks… September 15, 2020 In "News"