THE Governor of Nasarawa Stata, Abdullahi Sule, has  advised President Muhammadu Buhari  to consider adoption of  other options that would  bring an end to  the Boko Haram insurgency in the North, general insecurity in other parts of the country. Governor  Sule spoke when he led a  delegation from the state, on a condolence visit to the Governor of Borno State, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, over the recent killing of  farmers in Zabarmani, on Saturday. According to  Governor Sule, “hence  several options at winning the war against the insurgency in the North East is defying solutions,  it’s time to start thinking differently, especially having tried several options before, which are yet to resolve the lingering insurgency” He stressed  that there is no problem looking at other options so that the country can solve the insurgency once and for all. Abdullahi Sule regretted  that in this era, some people can engage in such barbaric act such as what  has happened in Zabarmani, where innocent lives were lost. “Today we are here to commiserate with the government and  the entire people of Borno State, for what you are going through. In Nasarawa State, our concerns are constantly with the people of Borno State,” the governor stated.. While nothing  that peace and progress will not come to a place where there is no peace, the governor prayed   God to restore peace to the people of Borno State and used the occasion  to commend his Borno State counterpart, for the progress so far recorded in the state, in spite of the challenges posed by the Boko Haram insurgency. “It’s saddening each time a life was lost, but we have seen some progress. For that reason, we have not lost hope,”  Sule said. Responding, Borno State Governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, expressed deep appreciation over the visit  to comiserate  and sympathize with the government and people of Borno State, over the  killing of farmers on their farmlands. According to Prof. Zulum,   the visit by the Governor of Nasarawa State, will further strengthen the already existing relationship between the two states, maintaining that the visit has also shown a degree of fraternity between Borno and Nasarawa States. “We shall remain committed to this noble cause of fostering relationship between the two states, ” Zulum declared Accompanying governor  Sule were, the immediate past governor, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-makura, Senator John Damboyi, Director General, A. A Sule campaign organization, the Emir of Lafia, HRH Justice Sidi Bage and the Emir of Keffi, HRH Alhaji (Dr.) Shehu Usman Yamusa III A former governor of Jigawa State and front line presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Sule Lamido, has described President Muhammadu Buhari as a para-civilian who must be voted out of office in 2019. August 1, 2018 In "News" An Elder statesman and First Republic Minister of Mines and Power, Alhaji Yusuf Maitama Sule, has blamed the current security challenges facing the country, particularly in the North East, where Boko Haram insurgency has claimed thousands of lives, on social injustice February 21, 2014 In "News" …Nigeria shouldn’t be reduced to land of blood, tears, misery – NLC …Berates military hierarchy, insists on sacking of security chiefs …Gunmen strike again in Niger, kill 3 soldiers, Vigilante …Synergy between el-Rufa’i, CAN'll bring peace in Kaduna — Sen Uba Sani By Wole Mosadomi, Victor Ahiuma-Young, Johnbosco Agbakwuru &… August 19, 2020 In "News"