U.S. President Donald Trump would have won the election in a “landslide” had he publicly showed empathy with regards to the coronavirus pandemic, former campaign manager Brad Parscale said on Tuesday. “I thought we should have public empathy. I think people were scared,” Parscale said in an interview on Fox News, his first since the election. He called the move by Trump to push for more economic reopenings at a time when people were afraid and uncertain a “policy error,” even as he continued to express his support of the president more generally. Parscale worked on Trump’s 2016 successful White House run and was the campaign manager on the last attempt, but in July he was demoted within the organisation over finance issues and other concerns. “I think a young family, with a young child who were scared to take them back to school, wanted to see an empathetic president, and an empathetic Republican party — and I think that, and I said this multiple times, and he chose a different path,” Parscale said. Trump often downplayed the risks of COVID-19 while generally eschewing mask wearing in public. He presided over a large number of public events without social distancing, with at least one widely seen as having caused an outbreak. The president himself caught the virus as did a large number of people in his inner circle. Parscale is reportedly working on a book about his time with Trump. Vanguard News Nigeria Former White House candidate Bernie Sanders on Monday endorsed onetime rival Joe Biden for president, saying it was time to unite in the effort to defeat Donald Trump in November. The two veteran politicians, who each spent the past year battling for the Democratic nomination, appeared together by split-screen on Biden's livecast.… April 14, 2020 In "Foreign" Twitter issued a fact check of some of Donald Trump’s tweets on Tuesday, marking the first time the U.S. president’s favoured social media platform has pushed back against him spreading falsehoods. The move, which almost immediately heightened tensions between Trump and the social media giant, came in the form of… May 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" President Donald Trump has only just completed his first year in the White House, but he is already looking ahead to a 2020 reelection campaign, tapping Brad Parscale to get the ball rolling. February 28, 2018 In "News"