Most Nigerian consumers are not likely to purchase expensive or luxury items in the next 12 months. The Central Bank Of Nigeria (CBN) made this known in its Consumer Expectations Survey (CES) Report for December 2020, released by the Statistics Department of the apex bank on Tuesday in Abuja. According to the report, most consumers believed that the next one year would not be ideal for the purchase of high-costing items like vehicles and houses. CBN said that most respondents to the survey expected the naira to appreciate, while the inflation rate would rise and increase in borrowing rate in the next 12 months. According to the report, the overall buying intention index in the next 12 months stood at 29.9 index points, indicating that most consumers do not intend to buy big-ticket items in the next 12 months. The report reads, “The consumers’ overall confidence outlook was pessimistic in Q4 2020 standing at -14.8 index points. “Consumers attributed this unfavourable outlook to declining economic conditions, family financial situation and declining family income. “Most consumers expect that prices of goods and services will rise in the next 12 months, with an index of 43.1 points – largely driven by savings, food and other household needs. “Consumers generally expect the unemployment rate to rise in the next year, with unemployment index for the next 12 months remaining positive at 36.9 points in Q4 2020.’’ NAN Vanguard News Nigeria Most Nigerian consumers are not likely to purchase expensive or luxury items in the next 12 months. The Central Bank Of Nigeria (CBN) made this known in its Consumer Expectations Survey (CES) Report for December 2020, released by the Statistics Department of the apex bank on Tuesday in Abuja. According to… December 23, 2020 In "News" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has reported a negative consumer expectations in its fourth quarter 2020 Consumer Expectations Survey (CES). The survey report stated: “Consumers’ overall outlook was negative in the current quarter, as consumers were pessimistic in their outlook. However, consumers have a positive outlook for the next… December 22, 2020 In "Economy" A  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) survey has shown that  confidence of consumers  in the macro economy worsened in the second quarter of 2018, (Q2’18) to -6.3 percent, contradicting the 34.5 percent confidence of private sector operators during the quarter. July 11, 2018 In "News"