Half-Cameroonian, Half-Deltan Nigerian actress, Ferrari Anthonia Okoro has recently shot two movies titled “I Wish” and “Arinola”. The two movies were shot on locations in Nigeria and the United States of America where the actress is presently domiciled. The first movie “I Wish” was directed by Tolulope Elijah in Nigeria and Dele Ogundipe in the US. “I Wish” tells the story of two different people in two different countries, on how they fight and battle to overcome the pains of love. It features frontline actors like Kunle Afod, Toyin Alausa, Biola Adebayo, Ferrari herself, Doris Simeon and others. The second movie, titled “Arinola” is the story of a young lady who truly loves education, but her father believes that a woman’s education in the kitchen and her husband’s bedroom, so he decided not to finance her school but fate has other plans in store for her. The movie was also shot in Nigeria and the United States by Tolulope Elijah and Dele Ogundipe respectively. It stars notable names like Wale Akorede, Jaiye Kuti, Saidi Balogun Amarachi Igwe and many others/ Ferrari Okoro was a banker who turned an actress and a filmmaker. She made her debut in 2010. Vanguard News Nigeria Voluptuous and beautiful Yoruba actress, Ferrari Tonia Okoro has debunked the rumour making the rounds that she had relocated to the United States of America, telling Potpourri in a WhatsApp chat that she had only gone on vacation. November 4, 2017 In "Home Video People" Voluptuous Yoruba actress, Tonia Ferrari may soon have the bragging right to rub shoulders with the big actresses in the industry if all goes her way next week at the City People Award. The actress, who has been nominated in the ‘Revelation of the Year’ category of the award stands… July 17, 2016 In "Entertainment" Banker turned actress, Ferrari Okoro, who has just shot her own movie ‘Omo Toke’ certainly has the goods to get selfish with the male attention. The busty actress shared a location picture on Instagram yesterday and it became all clear how much of a confusionist she could turn out to… July 30, 2017 In "Home Video People"