Commander of Africa’s first Economic War and leader of The Black Wall Street Charles N. Lambert has said that he is capable of defeating the Westerners who have left the African continent under poor economic situation for decades now. Lambert who said this on Thursday while posting on his social media accounts said even the whites themselves know they can’t defeat his agenda. He said “When I was a kid, my father told me the White men were the best thing that happened to us as Africans and that our problems truly began when they left. My father also told me that the only way to develop Africa was to bring the white man back. My father concluded with the famous Igbo saying..” Bekee wu agbara.”(The white man is Spirit). “With the highest level of curiosity in my mind, I went to live in the West for two decades and studied the systems of my father so much adored. “In 2002, I asked a simple question to white people. What is Capitalism without Compassion? I found out my thought process on Compassionate Capitalism was intriguing to the White population while I lived in the key countries of the West. “In the UK, a group of White people told me I was the Black Wiston Churchill. In Canada, another group of White people told me I was ” A god amongst men”. In Texas, another group told me to become US citizen and aim to be President. In Atlanta, the PR company representing Billy Graham and TD Jakes offered me international promotion on their own costs. Plus countless others. “I realized that my father was wrong. The white man is not better than me or any other black person. The individual development of our minds determines superiority. “While I will forever be grateful to the West for confirming the potency of my abilities, I am more excited to dethrone their Economic System which has kept my Continent and my people, second class, to them with unending poverty. “Even White people who know me can tell you that I will definitely defeat them in this War. Africa First”. The Economic War is a commerce-driven, orchestrated attempt, to balance altered trade deficit for a region. According to Lambert, this is done by simply ensuring that money leaving the continent is controlled, to avoid the haemorrhage of funds and capital flight. Vanguard News Nigeria All are getting fired up at The Black Wall Street (BWS) house as Africa’s first economic war rages on. The most generous, compassionate and brain behind the Africa’s first economic War, Charles N. Lambert has gifted some of the faithful Ugandans with cars as a thank you for their efforts… September 23, 2020 In "News" In this article, the leader of Africa's first Economic War, Charles N Lambert, explains the word behind the war to liberate Africa from economic slavery. It used to be that countries, politicians fought a war of words before every election, economic situations, after which some come together while others quit… September 24, 2020 In "News" Hey guys, I've got a question to ask you today, and here it goes "If you find out why Westerners are rich, would you do the same thing they do to become rich and even richer than them?" You do not even need to think about it twice because I… June 16, 2020 In "News"