BARELY two weeks after the kinsmen of former Governor Sam Egwu were sacked from the administration of Governor David Umahi, another set of appointees from former Senator Anyim Pius Anyim’s Local Government Area of Ivo were some minutes ago relieved of their appointments. Their sack is said to be connected with the letter written by the former Senate President to Governor Umahi on Monday this week. Meanwhile, the Secretary to the State Government, SSG, Dr. Kenneth Ugbala has said that their removal was based on the policy of inclusive governance by the present administration in the State. A signed statement signed disclosed that all affected officeholders are expected to handover all government property in their possession to the office of the Secretary to the State Government and Coordinating Commissioner. According to him: “In keeping with the policy of inclusive governance, the Governor of Ebonyi State, His Excellency Engr Chief David Nweze Umahi FNSE FNATE has approved the removal from office of the following political office holders from Ivo Local Government Area: “They are All Senior Technical Assistant, STAs and Technical Assistants, TAs from Ivo Local Government Area. “All Liaison Officers from Ivo Local Government Area; All Management Committee members from Ivo Local Government Area. “The affected office holders are to handover all Government Property in their possession to the Secretary to the State Government and Coordinating Commissioner by the close of work today, 2nd December 2020.” Vanguard News Nigeria ...Condemns false accusations against Anyim, Egwu, others The Association of Ebonyi State Indigenes in the Diaspora (AESID) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to urgently call governor Dave Umahi to order so as to avoid crisis in Ebonyi state. The group was… November 29, 2020 In "Politics" …Says, it has not brought anyone out of poverty …2023 elections should not be the discussion now …My life under threat —Anyim By Dennis Agbo Sequel to the defection of the governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, to the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, reactions and counter-reactions have continued to… December 2, 2020 In "News" By Peter Okutu— Abakaliki Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, Sunday night revealed that the plan behind his defection was for the former Senate President, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim, and other leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP to join him in APC two weeks after he must have successfully… November 30, 2020 In "News"