A self-acclaimed prophet, Kolawole Adisa, of House 50, Anike Ibikunle Street, Mosan area of Lagos state, has reported his tenant to Area ‘P’ Police command, Gate Bus Stop, for allegedly praying at nights on a regular basis. The landlord who claims to be presiding over one of the parishes of Cherubim and Seraphim (C&S) Church at Ikola area of the state, said his tenant disturbs him anytime the latter prays at night, adding that “his prayer is against the prescription of my doctor”. Reacting, the tenant who simply identified himself as Engr Kenny John refuted the claims made by the landlord as “false and concocted report” while explaining his side of the story. According to him, “I rented this apartment in 2018 and I categorically told him (landlord) of my faith, particularly my denomination as a member of Mountain of Fire where prayer is our most powerful weapon to conquer life fiercest battles. “Also, I stated my terms and conditions before moving to the apartment of which I told him I wouldn’t want to be staying with my landlord under the same roof to avoid some of these unforeseen circumstances,” he said. He continued: “The trouble started immediately he (landlord) moved into this apartment and requested I connected him with my electricity bill and water bill respectively of which I declined. “Since then, I noticed his mood changed towards me and I never took him serious because I had many important things I paid attention to. “So, I believed this is the more reason he gave me notice to quit from his house and I agreed to leave next year as stated in the letter. “He should just let’s go settle this in court instead of coming up with this flimsy excuse.” While settling the dispute between the two parties, Officer Solomon of Area ‘P’ command begged them to allow peace reign amicably. Vanguard News Nigeria ONE week after Edwin Nnadiogo, a 48-year old tenant of No.19B Ntueke Street, Awada layout, Obosi in Idemili North Local government Area of Anambra state, near Onitsha killed his four children, sister in-law and himself, his fellow tenants were yet to recover from the rude shock, fear and psychological trauma… March 3, 2018 In "Crime Alert" VISION impaired Mrs. Nekpen Obasohan, wife of Mr. Jeff Obasohan, the tenant who was alleged to have set his landlord, Pa Joseph Iyen, aged 83, ablaze in his residence on Uwa Street, Benin City, in Oredo Local Government Area, Edo State, weekend, has said that her husband was not responsible… March 21, 2016 In "News" LAGOS—Chidi Iwuoha, a tenant of 19 Kayode Alabi Street, Ogba, Lagos, who was ejected from his two bedroom flat over his inability to pay the balance of his rent, has accused his landlord, a retired Customs officer, of conniving with court bailiffs to carry out the action. January 18, 2017 In "News"