Amid the rising wave of banditry and other crimes in some parts of the North, Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello has reiterated his earlier position not to negotiate with criminal elements, saying recent history has shown that criminal gangs often take advantage of such official gesture to wreak more havoc as a result of the illusion that government negotiated out of a place of weakness. Bello spoke on Wednesday in Abuja during a breakfast show on a national television monitored by our correspondent. The governor cited an instance where a criminal gang was offered amnesty in Nasarawa state following the intervention of a top politician, lamenting that the group however reneged on its agreement with government as its members have continued to terrorise the people. He pointed out that strong political will was required to tackle security challenges of any type and the steps his administration took in a state bedeviled with security challenges was to deal ruthlessly with crime perpetrators and their sponsors. Governor Bello added that security was not only the responsibility of the Nigerian Army, the police and other security operatives but community ownership must also be instilled to facilitate trust and active participation of the people in their own security and safety, particularly intelligence sharing. According to Bello, the decision of the North Central Governors Forum to establish military barracks in flashpoints within their states was in a bid to further strengthen the existing effective security architecture in the region adding that such barracks would be a designated training location for military operatives from where special forces could be easily deployed for operations. The Governor stated that it was a common practice by politicians who aspired political offices to engage the services of thugs to help intimidate their opposition adding that when the political season was over these people were often abandoned by their employers. Vanguard News Nigeria ...Vows to sustain onslaught on criminals ...No record of COVID-19 in Kogi, Gov insists Arogbonlo Israel Governor Yahaya Bello has vowed that the current onslaught on criminal elements in Kogi state will be sustained until they are crushed completely, urging them to surrender as there would be no negotiation with… July 31, 2020 In "News" Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello has stated that despite the chaotic security apparatus he inherited in the State, his Administration has made the Confluence State safe for citizens, residents, travelers, investors and tourists in the State. June 27, 2019 In "News" Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, yesterday said his administration would continue to partner with the police and other security agencies to combat crimes in the state. August 15, 2016 In "News"