No fewer than 11 people sustained various degrees of injury when a tanker, loaded with diesel, exploded on the Otedola bridge on Lagos-Ibadan expressway on Saturday. Olusegun Ogungbemide, Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in the state, confirmed the incident in a statement. Ogungbemide said that the explosion occurred when the tanker rolled back and collided with another Articulated truck carrying goods and a salon car. “The impact of the collision resulted in the explosion. “About 11 passengers involved in the crash but no death was recorded. “The rescue teams of FRSC, Lagos Fire Service and Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) are quickly mobilised to the scene for the rescue operation. “The rescue team of Lagos Fire service are making frantic effort to extinguish the fire while FRSC and other traffic, the management team are on the ground controlling traffic flow,’’ the commander stated. He advised drivers and owners of articulated vehicles to put their vehicles in proper shape and maintain minimum safety standard. The commander also implored the public to be more vigilant while using the road, especially during this festive period. (NAN). A Daf tanker loaded with 45,000 litres of petrol exploded on Saturday at World Oil Filling Station after Kara Bridge along Lagos/Ibadan Expressway, claiming two lives and destroying 23 vehicles. The fallen tanker resulted in fire explosion, following the trail of the spilt petrol which affected 23 other vehicles parked… November 7, 2020 In "News" No fewer than 153 Nigerians have died as a result of fuel tanker fire accidents from January this year till date, findings by Sunday Vanguard revealed. October 26, 2019 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Emergency responders in the early hours on Tuesday averted what could have resulted in fire explosion with attendant danger when two tankers laden with Kerosene and Diesel respectively, had a head-on collision at the popular Otedola Bridge along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. According to report, the unfortunate incident occurred… May 5, 2020 In "News"