President of the Senate, Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, has called on South East leaders to continue to work for the unity of the country, contending that Nigeria will achieve more if all regions in Nigeria are united. Speaking during the 10th year anniversary of the death of Senator Orji Uzor Kalu’s father, Late Johnson Uzor Nsiegbe Kalu, at Igbere, Bende Local Government Area of Abia State, the senate President commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, for promoting national unity and integration across party divide. According to him, “Today and indeed even tomorrow and forever, we can achieve better. We can achieve more when we are united. Nigeria is designed by the Grace of God to be a nation of many people of different orientation, different sentiments but we must be a people with common purpose and common destiny and this is what we are trying to achieve. “Let’s unite ourselves in this state and indeed in the Southeast. Let’s face common agenda of being in the centre of Nigeria. In fact let’s even attempt to be the leaders of Nigeria because it’s a valid aspiration. “Let’s not stay away from being part of the real centre of action in Nigeria that we can achieve when we sit together and talk among ourselves. Time is of essence. Nigeria needs all of us to be united. Nigeria needs all hands to be on deck. Nigeria needs the effort of each and every part to make it work and we can make it work. “So let’s continue to unite here in Abia. Let’s continue to unite in the Southeast in making not only the National Assembly Whip our own but making Nigeria itself ours.” The Senate President expressed delight that Governor Ugwuanyi was patriotic enough to attend the event in solidarity with the family of the Senate Chief Whip, Senator Kalu, in spite of their different political persuasions. While stressing that “Nigeria needs all parts of the country to make things work”, he said “this occasion that has brought all of us here; regardless of our political or religious persuasion” was a symbol that “there is unity among us”, adding that “the Governor of Enugu State, our brother, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, (Gburugburu) has been here since. This is in solidarity with this family and this is what unity can achieve for us.” Vanguard News Nigeria …Charges S/East leaders to continue in unity President of the Senate, Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, yesterday, lauded Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, for promoting national unity and integration across party divide. Speaking during the 10th year anniversary of the death of Senator Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu's father, Late Chief Johnson… December 28, 2020 In "News" President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan on Sunday made a strong case for national unity saying Nigeria needs all parts of the country to make things work. Lawan stated this at the 10th year memorial anniversary of the father of the Senate Chief Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu which held at… December 27, 2020 In "News" Senate President Lawan Ahmed has called on Nigerians to put their tribal, religious, and political affiliations aside and unite to make the nation great. Ahmed made the call on Sunday during a thanksgiving service and 10th anniversary celebration in honour of the late Chief Johnson Kalu, the father of the… December 28, 2020 In "News"