There was pandemonium in the early hours of Wednesday when the body of an Assistant Commissioner of Police serving in No.73 PMF Squadron, Magumeri, Borno state, ACP Egbe Eko Edum which was reportedly hacked to death in Calabar, Cross River State Capital by unknown assailants was discovered. Vanguard learned that the tragic incident took place in the early hours of Wednesday, at about 1:00 am along Murtala Mohammed Highway in Calabar by Pepsi depot, adjacent WAEC office. Sources who pleaded anonymity told Vanguard that he was hacked to death with an axe by his assailants who left him to die on the lonely highway. When contacted, Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Cross River State Command, DSP Irene Ugbo who confirmed the incident said that the late officer came into Calabar to see his family but arrived in the wee hours. Her words: “He dropped off from a public transport and had called his wife to pick him up before he was attacked by the unknown men. “We are investigating the incident and the family has recovered the body from the scene of the tragic incident,” she said. She reiterated that the deceased was an Assistant Commissioner of Police who served in Borno State but only came to Calabar on a visit. “He is not serving here I think he was coming to see his family here in Cross River, he arrived in Calabar at about 1:am when the incident happened,” Irene stated. Vanguard News Nigeria CALABAR—A 500-Level student of Electrical Engineering of Cross River University of Technology, CRUTECH, identified as James was shot dead, yesterday, by suspected cultists, while writing his first semester examination in Calabar. July 16, 2019 In "Crime Guard" TWO young men were brutally hacked to death in Calabar on Wednesday, 8th June in what is said to be a continuation of the raging cult war which has claimed several lives in the city since March this year. June 9, 2016 In "News" A final year student of the Cross River University of Technology, CRUTECH, Felix Egot was on Thursday afternoon hacked to death by gunmen near the SUG secretariat in the school premises. October 3, 2019 In "News"