Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transportation, has said the zoning arrangement for political offices should be respected ahead of the 2023 elections. Amaechi said this during a Channels TV programme, said the arrangement, which is usually between the North and South, should remain the same. He was asked by the programme’s anchor if All Progressives Congress, APC, will consider giving the South-East a chance for the presidency in 2023. Responding, Amaechi said: “It is a difficult question for me to respond to. ”I just believe that the zoning, which was done in the North and South should be respected, just like Fashola said.” Channels reported that the minister, who is from Rivers State, added that it was “a bit too early” to have conversations about contesting for president either in 2023 or afterwards. “The best conversation to have now is how to deliver on the railway, maritime as it pertains to the responsibility assigned to me by the President,” the minister said. “Why not allow me to complete the responsibility that has been given to me by the President, which is being the minister of transportation.” Recall that Babatunde Fashola, the Minister of Works and Housing, said about a week ago that the APC must respect its zoning agreement, which would see a southerner replace Buhari as president. Vanguard News Nigeria By Ikechukwu Amaechi THE debate on which zone produces Nigeria’s president in 2023, which is not new, has gained gravitas with the defection of Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State from the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, to the All Progressives Congress, APC. Umahi claimed he defected because the PDP has… November 26, 2020 In "Totally Real with Ikechukwu Amaechi" A vicious struggle for ascendancy in the All Progressives Congress, APC ahead of the 2023 General Election has broken out with Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi turning into a major victim of the power play in the South-South. May 11, 2019 In "News" THE Ohanaeze Youth Council, OYC, yesterday, took a swipe at the Transportation Minister, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, over a statement credited to him that Ndigbo should forget 2023 presidential ambition, saying Amaechi does not hold the key to the political future of Ndigbo May 20, 2019 In "News"