President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday presided over the 29th virtual Federal Executive Council, FEC, meeting at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Physically present at the meeting which is expected to be the last council meeting in 2020 were Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha and the National Security Adviser, NSA, Major General Babagana Monguno (retd). Also present at the Council Chamber were 12 Ministers, Alhaji Lai Mohammed (Information and Culture), Abubakar Malami, (Attorney General of the Federation, AGF and Minister of Justice), Mr Babatunde Fashola (Works and Housing), Hadi Sirika (Aviation), Zainab Ahmed (Finance, Budget and National Planning), and Mohammed Bello (Federal Capital Territory). Others are the Ministers of Education, Adamu Adamu, Power, Sale Mamman, Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Transport, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi, and Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Zubairu Dada. The Head of Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan and other Ministers are participating in the weekly council meeting from their various offices in Abuja. Vanguard News Nigeria By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 5th virtual Federal Executive Council, FEC meeting, at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. The meeting started at 10am as the President entered the chamber with the rendition of the National Anthem. Physically present as at the… June 24, 2020 In "Politics" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the 26th virtual Federal Executive Council, FEC, meeting at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Physically present at the Council Chamber are Vice president Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha, Chief of… December 2, 2020 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA --- PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over the fourth virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting coordinated from the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. The meeting started immediately President Buhari arrived at 10am with the rendition of the National Anthem. Physically present are Vice President, Yemi… June 10, 2020 In "News"