The Pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, yesterday, urged Nigerians to rise above any premordial sentiments rescue the country from what it described as a malady. In a statement by its National publicity secretary, Yinka Odumakin stated that the recent abduction and rescue of the kankara school boys in Katsina State by bandits is a joke. The statement reads:”Those  who harbour any illusion that something is left in  this joke of a country called Nigeria must have their eyes  cleared after the kankara practical joke of abduction of hundreds of school boys by Boko Haram bandits. The tragedy was Chibok foreplay in 2014 which was a regime change platform but in which previous lives were involved. But with God with his big sense of humour intact , the Chibok practical joke was re-enacted a few days back as President Buhari arrived Katsina and  hundreds of kankara schoolboys were abducted by Boko Haram in broad daylight and along military routes like in Chibok. This time around those who celebrated Chibok to the hilt in 2014 are now in power and fumbled like amateur comedians in a big revelation that what is called terror in Nigeria is most likely a big scam being played at our expense. At a point, presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu who on different occasions had given impression that he had never been too far from the key room of Boko Haram told what he regards a silly nation that only 10 boys were kidnapped as against 344 figure given by Governor Masari.A more accurate figure would have been given by this administration if their precious cows were the ones rustled. The height of stupidity in  governance was when it officially came out that another terror group called Miyetti Allah was the front for negotiation confirming our suspicion that this government rolls with all that troubles this country. Even when the boys were cheekily released and there was official  lie of rescue Governor Masari in the boldest official cover – up for the terror enveloping Nigeria said he needed a third party to tell him who abducted and released them. The United States  of America has asked what it mistakes for a government in Nigeria to hold the abductors responsible but we know that would be the 8th  wonder of the world.The Army, who went after peaceful protesters in Lekki and killed mercilessly, will not go after these Fulani terrorists. We in Afenifere are in serious pain that we are called fellow Nigerians with some people at this sad period when human lives have been made to be totally worthless officially. We are not in doubt that the lives of these boys must have been used to swipe the card once again and more money will be available to terrorise Nigerians. We call on all Nigerians, especially the enlightened north to rise and speak up at this mad season as we can’t continue to allow this practical joke to roll over us. It is time to rescue Nigeria from this malady and we must rise above any premordial sentiments.” *17 students found, says Masari *More students appearing from the bushes-Masari's aide *We thought the bandits were policemen — escapee *Boko Haram claims responsibility for Kankara school kidnapping *Pay ransom, free our children from bandits - Grieving parent begs FG *PDP blasts FG over Kankara abduction *APC charges security agencies… December 16, 2020 In "News" *Insists what happened in Kankara, Chibok & Dapchi unacceptable *Says no nation immune to terrorists attacks but Nigeria will keep watch over citizens By Soni Daniel, Editor, Northern Region A day after taking custody of the freed 344 boys captured from Government Science Secondary School in Kankara, Katsina State, the… December 18, 2020 In "News" Boko Haram recruited three local gangs in to kidnap hundreds of schoolboys on its behalf in Katsina, security and local sources said Wednesday. The jihadist group has claimed responsibility for Friday's attack, which targeted a secondary school in the town of Kankara, in Katsina state. But sources told AFP the… December 16, 2020 In "Metro"