PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has expressed sadness over the death of Professor Habu Galadima, the Director-General, National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, NIPSS, describing him as an intellectual colossus, who stood tall in the field of scholarship and knowledge. President Buhari said this in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Sunday. The President said: “Galadima was an eloquent and remarkable intellectual whose contributions to scholarship were vast and remarkable, and Nigeria will continue to remember him for these contributions.” He commiserated with the family of the late Galadima, friends, the government and the people of Nasarawa State. He said: “With the death of Galadima, NIPPS and Nigeria at large have lost one of the best DGs ever appointed to head the institute.” The DG’s death was announced, Sunday, in a statement by the Director of Administration, Brigadier General CFJ Udaya (retd). He said: “On behalf of the Board of Governors, Management and staff of the National Institute, we regret to announce the sudden demise of the Director-General/CEO of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies NIPSS, Prof Habu Shuaibu Galadima which occurred this morning December 20 after a brief illness. Vanguard News Nigeria The Director-General of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, NIPSS, Professor Habu Galadima, is dead. Confirming the DG's death, a statement signed by the Director of Administration, Brigadier General CFJ Udaya (retd) said: ”On behalf of the Board of Governors, Management and staff of the National Institute, we… December 20, 2020 In "News" Participants of the Senior Executive Course, SEC 41 of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, NIPSS, Kuru, near Jos have rounded up their research work and set to deliver their recommendations to President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday. November 21, 2019 In "News" Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Monday called on Nigerian think tanks to support policymakers, and champion the right course toward providing workable solutions for national development. October 21, 2019 In "News"