“Those who advocate for president of Nigeria of south-east extraction should diligently and boldly pursue it for the time has come, and the time is now”. The above statement was made by a former Secretary to the government of the federation, Anyim Pius Anyim. Anyim disclosed this at the 6th World Igbo Summit at Gregory University, Uturu, Abia state on Friday. Recall that Ohanaeze Ndigbo and many other Igbo groups have continued to canvass for Igbo Presidency come 2023. Citing Pius, TheCable said: “It is my opinion that the Igbo of the south-east geo-political zone is in continuous search of a system, or if you like, a polity that guarantees and secures his social, political and economic interest based on equality of citizenship, equity and justice. I make bold to say that the Igbo of the south-east geo-political zone can find this in Nigeria,” he said. “The journey to building an equitable society is usually challenging and rough, but many nations have arrived safely from this journey. It is, therefore, my position that those who posit restructuring have a point but should work harder to secure national consensus to make it possible. “Also those who advocate for president of Nigeria of south-east extraction should diligently and boldly pursue it for the time has come, and the time is now. It is, therefore, my considered view that the present-day political interest of the Igbo of the south-east geo-political zone is to attain the presidency of Nigeria come 2023.” Vanguard News Nigeria Again, the Peoples Democratic Party is playing yo-yo with the collective aspiration of a people.Â  Penultimate week, the party declared that come 2015, the South East geo-political zone would produce the next president of Nigeria.Â  But this declaration has been causing ripples in the polity. By Henry Umoru Abuja -… July 11, 2009 In "Politics" A pressure group, South-East Revival Group, SERG, has insisted on an alleged plot to remove the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Chief Anyim Pius Anyim, from office under the guise of zoning within the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. September 27, 2011 In "News" By Dirisu Yakubu Penultimate Saturday, this correspondent in a piece titled, “Umahi: Defections and Igbo 2023 Presidency,” analysed the events, circumstances and reasons advanced by the Ebonyi state governor, Dave Umahi for quitting the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP for the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC. As it were, the governor… November 28, 2020 In "News"