The Inspector General of Police, IGP, Mr. Mohammed Adamu has directed the 17 Assistant Inspector Generals of Police, AIG in the Nigeria Police Force to deploy all the recently trained operatives of the Special Weapon and Tactical Team, SWAT for routine patrols. The order which was contained in a message sighted by Vanguard, was also addressed to all the Commissioners of Police in the country including the FCT. The patrol by the SWAT operatives according to a senior police source is part of security measures being put in place by the IGP to checkmate the increased spate of insecurity across the country. According to the statement with reference number CH:5350/IGP.SEC/ABJ/VOL.20/340 with the caption, “Deployment of Newly Formed Special Weapon and Tactical Team operatives,” the operatives will be deployed immediately pending their primary operations. The statement reads: “The Inspector General of Police directs that all recently selected and trained Special Weapon and Tactical Team (SWAT) operatives are to immediately be deployed for routine duties across areas of responsibility.” The IGP noted further that the deployment of the personnel should be carried out immediately pending when they will be mobilized and kitted for their primary operations. Vanguard News Nigeria The Inspector General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu, has said operatives of the new Police Tactical Team will operate within very high professional and ethical standards, rule of law and dictates of best international policing practices, as they begin training tomorrow, Monday. October 18, 2020 In "News" … As SARS escape lynching in revenge attack by mob in Delta …Keyamo debunks reported killing of youth by SARS in Ughelli …IGP bans FSARS, other police tactical squads from routine patrols …Warns against illegal searches on citizens’ mobile phones, laptops …As police arrest 2 FSARS operatives, one civilian accomplice… October 5, 2020 In "News" **Warns against illegal searches on citizens mobile phones & laptops **As Police Arrest 2 FSARS Operatives, 1 Civilian Accomplice in Lagos State By Kingsley Omonobi The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu has banned the personnel of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) and other Tactical Squads of the Force… October 4, 2020 In "News"