The member representing Warri Federal Constituency at the National Assembly Hon. Thomas Ereyitomi has felicitated with the Olu of Warri on  5th coronation anniversary, noting that  his reign has brought peace, development and more  dignity to the kingdom. Ereyitomi, Deputy Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Niger Delta  Development Commission, NDDC, commended His Majesty Ogiame Ikenwoli the Olu of Warri for always keeping his subjects together as well as being a father to all , using his office to attract positive and visible development to the entire Warri Kingdom. According to the lawmaker, on behalf of  people of Warri Federal Constituency made up of Warri South, Warri North and Warri South-West LGAs of Delta State congratulate  the Warri monarch on the coronation anniversary and prayed God to continue to grant him the strength and wisdom for a greater kingdom. Spokeman to Ereyitomi, Amb  Toyin Agbolaya assured the Olu of Warri of continues prayers and support, he called on other subjects to attract more development to Warri. Agbolaya, said “Hon. Ereyitomi who is a Chief in the the revered Olu of Warri Palace has  stressed the need for every stakeholders to continually rally support for the Warri monarch to succeed, he enjoined Warri Federal constituents to sustain their peaceful disposition during and after the event. “The Lawmaker  urged the people to participate fully in the celebration of the 5th coronation anniversary of the Olu  as well as show love to each other because the celebration comes with festivity”. The member representing Warri Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, Hon. Thomas Ereyitomi has congratulated people of Delta State on the occasion of its 29th anniversary marking the creation of the state, noting that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has continued to build on the developmental strive of predecessors. August 27, 2020 In "News" The member representing Warri Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, Hon.Thomas Ereyitomi has congratulated the Chairman of Warri South Local Government Council  in Delta State, Hon. Michael Tidi, as he marks his 40th birthday anniversary yesterday in warri. Ereyitomi  in congratulatory massage described Hon Tidi as vibrant and visionary person… September 16, 2020 In "News" The member representing Warri Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives,Hon.Thomas Ereyitomi has feliciateted with  the member representing Warri South Constituency 2 in the  Delta State House of Assembly, DTHA, Hon. Matthew Poko Opuoru as he marked his birthday anniversary . Ereyitomi in a congratulatory massage singed by its spokesperson… September 21, 2020 In "News"