The Federal Executive Council, FEC, has approved a total sum of N120,717,387,596 for various projects that cut across states of the federation. Of this amount, about N117.5 billion was for construction and rehabilitation of roads and bridges. Briefing State House correspondents at the end of the 26th virtual FEC meeting, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja, the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fasola, said he presented three memoranda on behalf of his ministry to the council of N117,485,081,325, which was approved. He explained that two were in respect of various roads and bridges works, while the third was for a banking application software for the Federal Mortgage Bank. According to him, “Council approved a total sum of N18,923,846,198.47 billion for roads and bridges. First is the rehabilitation of 26 kilometres of Kano – Kazaure – Daura – Mai’adua Road in Kano-Jigawa-Katsina States at N8.767 billion. Omor – Umulokpa Road in Anambra and Enugu N1.712 billion. “Rehabilitation of Oye – Oranto off Enugu Express Dunukofia in Anambra At N2.504 billion. Okpokwu Bridge along Ogoja – Okuku – Aliforkpa-Benue Road in Cross River N1.057 billion. “Bridge at kilometre 22 +700 meters along Bida -Zungaru road in Niger at N1.022 billion. Nkwumi Bridge linking Abia and Enugu states at N1.072 billion, and Chalawa – Runku – Sawa – Kayi Road in Kombotso, Kano State N2.787 billion. “The other memorandum relating to roads is for the total sum of N98,73,840,842.81 billion. The roads are in Rijiya – Gusau Road in Zamfara N1.799 billion; Jega-Kwanar Sanagi-Kebbi-Gunmi Road in Kebbi N31.539 billion; Koko- Mahuta Road in Kebbi, N19.713 billion; Kukar Babangida – Gangara Road in Katsina N11.731 billion, Ihiala-Orlu -Umuduru Road to Uko at N16.750 billion, Oye Ama Etitte road to Umuawulu Road in Anambra at N2.155 billion and rehabilitation in Bichi Road in Kano State N8.34 billion. “The third memo was the procurement of a core banking application software for Federal Mortgage Bank in the sum of N487.394,285.71 million for Messers FINTAX software to enable Federal Mortgage Bank provide all the frontline services that other banks now provide across its branches nationwide. “Unlike other banks, federal mortgage bank is still unable to send automated notices, statements and all of those to national housing fund contributors. “This application will now enable the federal mortgage bank to provide those kinds of services and do a lot of automation and reconciliation loan and credit processing when fully installed.” Also briefing, the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, said his ministry presented two memoranda to Council which were the furnishing of the already completed technology building, that is the data and communication command and control centre at the cost of N2,100,080,759.65 billion. He said an approval was obtained for the purchase of 44 operational vehicles meant to enhance efficiency of the officers, which include Comptrollers, Assistant Comptroller Generals, Deputy Comptroller Generals as well as for patrol duties, at the cost of N768,077,08 million. He said, “Council also approved contract for the furnishing of the technology building, that is the data and communication command and control centre, it will also serve as the service Headquarter of Nigeria Immigration Service. The award is favour of messers Julius Berger Nigeria Plc at the total sum approved is N2,100,080,759.65 billion. “Council approved the procurement of operational vehicles to enhance efficiency in the service for those who have been recently promoted in the Nigeria Immigration Service, Comptrollers, Assistant Comptroller Generals, Deputy Comptroller Generals as well as patrol vehicles. “The council approved procurement of 44 operational vehicles at a total contract sum of N768,077,08 million. The beneficiaries are messers PAN, Kawra and Wanla Motors Nigeria Ltd. “While the final phase of consultancy was given to Messers APTECH Practice Ltd, an architectural design consultant. The ward is a total sum of N163,956,232.03. The duration of the project is four months.” FEC also approved a memo which sought the award of contract for the reversed cost for an extension of time of the consultancy services at Tadasungai Irrigation project in Kwara state. Briefing on that, the Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu noted that Council had okayed the reversal of the total cost of the main project and got approval to extend the services of the consultant, Messers Tech Consult Consultancy International and associates Ltd for another 12 months. He said, “It was 24 months plus 12 months extension plus 12 months liability period, making it 36 for a total sum of N200,192,200 million inclusive 7.5 per cent VAT. “These are high priority project along the banks of River Niger and has the potential to improve production in the country especially rice production.” He further said the council also approved award of contract for a dedicated power line for middle Ogun Irrigation project phase one which is in Iseyin in Oyo State. Adamu explained that the irrigation system used to be powered by diesel generators, “but because of deregulation and with diesel it has become so expensive and not sustainable. He said, “So, we have to look for other ways and means to power irrigation systems. We are looking at both the National grid and solar. “In this case, we have an interim arrangement to extend power for national grid power to irrigation scheme and in the future, before it is finished, we will take it to solar. “The capacity coverage is about 3,000 hectares and right now about 1,300 hectares have been finished but because of lack of power, we cannot irrigate the land. Also, the land is only being used for rare…irrigation,” he said. Also briefing, the Minister of Special Duties, Senator George Akume, as well as Minister of State for Science and Technology, Mohammed Abdullahi, gave reports of their visits to their home states, Benue and Nasarawa states respectively, as directed by President Buhari at the wake of the #EndSARS protests. The President had directed all the Ministers to relocate to their various states and constituencies to interface with the youths on the efforts of the Government in attending to the demands made by the protesting youths on Police brutality. Vanguard News Nigeria THE Federal Executive Council, FEC, on Wednesday, approved N22.247 billion for the reconstruction of Apapa-Oworonshoki-Ojota Phase Section Two. October 15, 2020 In "News" The Federal Executive Council (FEC),  presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, on Thursday in Abuja,  approved N117.6 billion for the reconstruction of some federal roads. The Ministers of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola and his Water Resources counterpart, Sulaiman Adamu, made the disclosure when they briefed State House correspondents on… December 2, 2020 In "News" The Federal Executive Council (FEC) presided by President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday in Abuja approved N8.2billion for the completion and construction of roads across the country. The Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, who disclosed at the end of the meeting, said two of the approvals were to… September 18, 2019 In "News"