Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi on Thursday told members of the Ekiti State Executive Council nursing governorship ambition to resign, rather than allowing the 2022 governorship struggle to derail his vision and developmental agenda for the state. This was just as the Former Lagos State Governor and Minister of Works, Mr Babatunde Raji Fashola(SAN) and the ex-Borno State Governor, Senator Kashim Shettima, appealed to Nigerian leaders to build their stewardships in the minds of the citizens for them to earn respect and enduring legacies after tenure. They Spoke in Ado Ekiti, on Thursday, during high-level retreat 2020 organise by Governor Fayemi, with the theme: ‘Finishing well and sustaining progressive leadership in Ekiti State’. The programme was held in compliance with COVID-19 pandemic regulations, as participants used face masks and many of the resource persons made their presentations via virtual means. Delivering his speech on “Finishing well, winning against all odds”, Fashola posited that Fayemi and his team must focus attention on the kernel of the cardinal objectives of his administration to earn the respect of Ekiti people. “Nothing can be more successful than self-measurement. I urge all of you to keep the world finishing well in minds. You all agreed on a goal, but the question to ask is that can we finish well? We must ask ourselves especially those having political ambitions who may want to place personal ambitions over collective gains. “What does success mean? If the five pillar policy thrust is well achieved, then there is a success. keep your focus on the agenda of the government. Remember that finishing well would mean that you remember that this government is a product of APC, which believes in the propagation of ideas of progressivism, Which means continuous improvement of human conditions. “This is a step towards finishing well. And when you finish well, you will see the credibility of your government with the people and this make it compulsory that we must stay connected to the people. “I am not unmindful of the limited resources, but prioritise the needs of the people. You must do things based on public opinion polls and engagements with the people. “Take critics as challengers, not enemies. Those who asked you to do more are not ungrateful people. If they ask you to do more, is a vote of confidence on your person and government. “Build your stewardship on the minds of the people. How do you react to those that suffered to elect you? How do you react to their messages and calls? Is it with laughter or irritation? All these are issues we must also take into cognisance”. Fashola assured that President Muhammadu Buhari would complete the federal Secretariat awarded by the federal government and other road projects being undertaken in Ekiti State like; Efon-Iwaraja, Ado-Aramoko- Itaore, Ado-Ifaki- Otun roads. Vanguard News Nigeria Dr Kayode Fayemi, Minister of Mines and Steel Development, has notified the national and state leaders of All Progressives Congress (APC) of his ambition to run for July 14, governorship election in Ekiti. April 12, 2018 In "News" Special Assistant to the Ekiti State Governor on Public Communications and New Media, Lere Olayinka has advised self-professed human rights activist and lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN) to desist from his unwarranted utterances against Governor Ayodele Fayose, saying; “it is obvious that Falana is driving himself sick because of his personal… September 9, 2016 In "News" The Supreme Court, on Thursday, declined to sack Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State from office on the premise that he was not eligible to contest the July 14, 2018, governorship election that he eventually won. April 17, 2019 In "News"