 Spokesman of the House of Representatives, Hon Ben Kalu, has described the call by the caucus leader of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Hon Kingsley Chinda to commence impeachment process on President Muhammadu Buhari as illogical. He also said it was a distraction to members who were eagerly awaiting Buhari’s coming to the House. It will be recalled that the House Tuesday last week via a resolution invited the President to come and give explainations on the escalating security situation in the country. The invitation was however prompted by the recent senseless killing of over 43 rice farmers in Zarbamari Village, Borno State. Chinda in a press release said that Buhari has failed in his primary responsibility of protecting lives and properties in the country, calling Nigerians to compel their representatives at the National Assembly to commence impeachment processes. The lawmaker also called on the Federal Executive Council, FEC, to declare the President incapacitated. But reacting to the calls, the House of Representative’s spokesman, Kalu in statement titled ” RE: “Nigeria saddled with the circus” – Hon Kingsley Chinda and his lone voyage of impeachment call”, said that Chinda does not speak for the lawmaker, referring to him as loner. The statement read in full: “The attention of the House of Representatives and her leadership has been drawn to the press release by Hon Kingsley Chinda, titled “ Nigeria saddled with the circus” circulated over most dailies on the 6th of December, 2020, where he called on constituents irrespective of political party, tribe or religion to compel their representatives to commence impeachment process against the president . “This opinion of a single member of the opposition party in the house has been misinterpreted by journalists as the voice of the entire House of Representatives when it does not represent the weakest opinion of the minority-caucus of the 9th House. Even among the minority caucus, Hon Kingsley Chinda lost the opportunity to speak for the entire minority when he lost the minority leadership election to Hon Ndudi Elumelu the minority leader of the 9th Assembly, a wound that has refused to heal. “It is the structure of the minority caucus leadership and majority caucus leadership that is recognised by the House as any statement not emanating from these and the spokesperson of the House does not in any way reflect either the minority, majority or general position of the 9th House of Representatives and should be disregarded like his other divisive, distracting, destabilising and destructive positions. Just last week the speaker warned the media to desist from ascribing to the House the opinion of a single member, since we have a spokesperson. “The motive behind this press release as well as the timing leaves a bitter taste in the mouth of most progressives who were instructed by their constituents to request for an interaction with the president, a task many thought was not possible seeing that in the history of our modern democracy none of the past presidents obliged the parliamentary request for an interactive session and none of the past leaderships of the assembly was able to use parliamentary back channel diplomacy, adopted and applied by the current leadership to secure the acceptance of Mr President to this invitation. An outing that has strengthened our democratic principles. “If this call came post President’s visit for the failure to dialogue well enough in securing solutions or due to his inability to put our positions to use, it would appear logical. This call is not only illogical, it appears as a tool strategically thrown up to disrupt the agenda of the coming visit with all it sets out to achieve in the spirit of nation building which remains the mantra of the 9th Assembly and is considered a joint task. “In the view of thr 9th Assembly, it would remain a call made wrongfully to distract the members whose minds are set on the visit and the expected achievements. It is surprising that Hon Kingsley Chinda, was among those who insisted on the invitation of the president, probably expecting a gross disregard from the president who surprisingly broke the jinx and kindly obliged our request. “Isn’t it obvious that apparently shocked by the acceptance of Mr President, he is on a new lonely voyage of personal agenda strange to the legislative agenda of the house and leadership? Where was his constitutional impeachment voice when his previous presidents of PDP extractions were invited but ignored the house, wondering why he is just remembering his constitution now that a president is coming to accept our inputs to the solutions he is seeking. “I, therefore, assure Nigerians that having asked us to invite Mr President which we have done, you should be patient to wait for the outcome of our meeting, before been misled by a alone voice on the frolic of his own, whose private opinion in no way represents the position of the House of Representatives. We have only invited Mr President for an interactive session and cannot be distracted by those with other self not House motivated agenda.” Vanguard News Nigeria ABUJA—MIFFED by his unilateral decision to expend the whopping $496,374,470.00 for the purchase of Super Tucano aircraft, members of the House of Representatives almost began moves to impeach President Muhammadu Buhari. April 25, 2018 In "News" ...Want FEC to declare President Incapacitated By Tordue Salem, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Caucus of the House of Representatives has called on members of the Green Chamber, to commence impeachment proceedings against President Muhammadu Buhari. They opine, he is incapable of continuing as the leader of the country.… December 7, 2020 In "Politics" The issue of the anticipatory approval granted by Buhari could have been better handled by the APC and its members in such a manner that, by the time the matter gets to the NASS, a majority vote would have urged for a doctrinal enterprise based on necessity April 29, 2018 In "Politics"