The coronavirus pandemic has infected over 70 million people, has caused over 1.6 million deaths and has subsequently led to the suffering and heartache for billions of people the world over. From an economic perspective, the once-in-a-century event created a slump not seen since World War II. The International Monetary Fund estimates the global covid-19 cost at $28 trillion in 2020 lost output. The pandemic suffering has also been skewed by race. According to The Economist a 40-year-old Hispanic-American is 12 times more likely to die from covid-19 than a white American of the same age. In Britain, an official inquiry found that racism and discrimination suffered by the country’s black, Asian and minority ethnic people has contributed to the high death rates from covid-19 in those communities. A topic that is in need of more attention is the injustice felt by students caused by the covid-19 fallout. The past 12 months have witnessed the most severe disruption to global education systems in history, which during the peak of the crisis led more than 1.6 billion learners out of school. The United Nations (UN) Secretary-General António Guterres has warned that the pandemic is threatening a loss of learning that may stretch beyond one generation of students. In the global south, school closures are likely to erase decades of progress made by educators. In Africa, although ed-tech surged during the summer, it wasn’t enough to overturn archaic disparities and make-believe generation next infrastructure. Data suggests that a combined total of just 19 million regular users had access to online education platforms, compared to the at least 450 million children aged 14 or younger that live on the continent. Fortunately, Covid-19 has not just brought about the need for change, it also points a way forward. Just last week world leaders in education met virtually to help set in motion far-reaching changes to education in the wake of the Coronavirus pandemic. RewirEdX focused on three main issues in the education sector; youth and future skills, education financing and innovation in education. Leaders driving the change at the event included former UK Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, now the UN’s Special Envoy for Global Education and Julia Gillard, former Prime Minister of Australia & Chair, Global Partnership for Education. Chief among the discussion was the vital importance of connectivity in underpinning effective distance learning and so making education accessible to all. Giving every single African child access to quality education is one of the visions for HESED. A lack of access to quality education and the sluggishness in adopting new methods of learning has immediate and long-term effects that countries on the continent cannot permit to spiral out of control. Even before Coronavirus struck, education was in crisis, but now we have an opportunity to turn things around. HESED is an initiative and my own personal contribution to providing quality education to Nigerians, as a borderless structure with an unrestricted curriculum. The e-learning platform complements the current school system by using a national curriculum with the option of studying an international syllabus. It’s time to rethink education. Let’s give our children a head start in 2021. Odu has MA in Taxation and FCA. Vanguard News Nigeria By magnus Onyibe On Monday, 27 September, 2020 some institutions of learning , places of worship and hotels as well as restaurants , started heaving a sigh of relief as Lagos  state government relaxed the restrictions imposed on them about 8 months ago, as part of the measures instituted to… October 14, 2020 In "News" WITH the death toll in the raging COVID-19 pandemic kissing 25,000 and those affected hitting 575,767, there is global unanimity to contain the disease to minimise the collateral damage. March 28, 2020 In "Health" WITH the death toll in the raging  COVID-19 pandemic kissing 25,000 and those affected hitting 575,767, there is global unanimity to contain the disease to minimise the collateral damage. March 28, 2020 In "News"