Raul Jimenez says he hoped to be back playing football soon despite the Wolverhampton Wanderers striker suffering a fractured skull in a horrific clash of heads with Arsenal’s David Luiz. The 29-year-old Mexican international tweeted from his hospital bed where he is under observation following an operation. Jimenez received 10 minutes of treatment on the pitch after the clash of heads in the first-half of Sunday’s Premier League match at the Emirates Stadium. He was subsequently wheeled off the pitch and taken to hospital. “Thanks for your support messages,” he tweeted. “I will be under observation, and I hope to return to the pitch soon.” Wolves went on to win the match 2-1 for their first victory at Arsenal in 41 years. One of their goalscorers Pedro Neto dedicated his goal and the win to his stricken team-mate. “I didn’t see the impact, I only heard the impact, and it was very hard seeing him on the ground like that,” said the 20-year-old Portuguese. “It was shocking, but I hope that he is ok and that he can recover to come back with us. “Seeing him unconscious on the floor was bad, but we had to try to focus 100 per cent on the game. “We wanted to end the game, we wanted to win the game for him, and we wanted to get this victory for him, so I think the whole team would like to dedicate this win for him.” Vanguard News Nigeria Mikel Arteta knows Arsenal must make a flawless finish to the season after a 2-0 win against Wolves gave them renewed hope of qualifying for the Champions League. Arteta's side made it three successive league victories thanks to Bukayo Saka's first half strike and a late Alexandre Lacazette goal at… July 4, 2020 In "Sports" Nuno Espirito Santo claimed football is in danger of becoming robotic after Wolves were controversially denied by VAR and Leicester's Hamza Choudhury was sent off in a stormy 0-0 draw at Molineux on Friday. Santo's side thought they had taken the lead when Willy Boly headed home in the first… February 15, 2020 In "News" Ole Gunnar Solskjaer admitted Manchester United produced the poorest performance of his reign as Wolves sent them crashing out of the FA Cup on Saturday with a 2-1 quarter-final win. March 17, 2019 In "Sports"