Twelve drowning passengers of an outward engine boat which capsized along Takwa Bay area of Lagos, were Sunday night rescued by  personnel of the  Nigerian Navy Ship BEECROFT, Lagos. The incident was said to have been caused by waves from another boat transiting the same area at about 8:10pm. Report said that passengers of the ill fated boat shouted for help but none was forth coming , until personnel of the  NNS Beecroft who were at the vicinity on routine patrol were alerted. Explaining how they were rescued,  the Western Naval Command Information Officer,  Commander Thomas Otuji, said ” The personnel were deployed to the scene for search and rescue operations. All passengers onboard the ill fated boat were rescued alive and conveyed to the Naval Medical Centre, Naval Dockyard, Victoria Island Lagos, for immediate medical care. “Once again, boat operators and passengers are strongly advised to adhere to safety guidelines and measures before embarking on any trip. Relevant unions and Associations are further advised to ensure that safety gears are provided by their members , passengers and to enforce the compulsory use of the safety gears by all passengers. “Additionally, boat drivers should be subjected to regular and mandatory training and medical checks.  These measure are necessary because the mishap in the first place was caused by an unprofessional boat driver with poor judgement and with no regard to the safety of others while plying the waters. On our part, the Western Naval Command will continue to render necessary assistance in fulfilment of its mandate on aid to civil authority, especially the security and safety of lives  property in its Area of Responsibility. Accordingly, members of the public are enjoined to remain patriotic and support measures emplaced by the Command to checkmate untoward actions by criminal elements in the maritime sector” Vanguard News Nigeria 'We held on to cylinder for 2 days as fellow passengers went down with ill-fated MV Soni' ... With the name MV Soni boldly inscribed on its dark body, the ill-fated boat, strung together with wood, set sail for Gabon, at about 9 p.m. on March 15, after it had… March 23, 2013 In "Just Human" The Nigerian Navy in Port Harcourt says it rescued a two-month-old baby and 11 others from drowning in Ngo waterways in Rivers. March 29, 2019 In "News" The Nigerian Navy in Lagos on Thursday said they rescued four Chinese men from kidnappers around Igbokoda area of Ondo State. December 21, 2017 In "News"