 The Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer, Skystone Capital & Investment Ltd., Mr Ola Olabinjo, has identified debt capital financing as the major panacea    to the country’s infrastructure deficit. He emphasized that the country’s infrastructure deficit and needs cannot be solved with yearly budgetary allocations. Olabinjo said at a meeting in Lagos that the quest by the Federal Government to develop the critical infrastructure needed to attract investment, growth and development could only be achieved through debt capital financing. He, urged Nigerians to embrace opportunities inherent in the debt capital in solving the lingering infrastructure deficit. Olabinjo said that the continued allocation and appropriation in the budget for development of the critical infrastructure sector of the economy, amounted to paying lip service to infrastructure development. “The budget allocation for infrastructure for the 2021 fiscal year is a drop of water in the ocean. “It cannot maintain the existing infrastructure let alone develop new ones. The only way to think out of the box and think afresh is new ways of tackling infrastructure development,” he said. He  said that government as a matter of urgency must put in place friendly and attractive business policies that would not be inimical to both local and foreign investors. Olabinjo said that legal/regulatory framework must be right to attract the needed debt capital for infrastructure development. Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Skystone Capital and Investment Limited, Mr. Ola Olabinjo, has charged Nigerians to latch on to the opportunity created by the relatively low yields on traditional fixed income securities and re-direct their capital into the real sector to stimulate job creation, drive double-digit investment returns and… August 23, 2020 In "Business" AS part of efforts to tackle challenges of  infrastructure financing in Nigeria, leading experts in the financial sector are expected to proffer solutions at the annual conference of the Finance Correspondents Association of Nigeria (FICAN) on Saturday, September 16, 2017, in Lagos. September 13, 2017 In "Business" By Victor ‘Tunde Oso & Nkiruka Nnorom With Nigeria’s debt stock growing by 3.11 per cent from $81.27 billion recorded in the first quarter of 2019 to $83.88 billion (N25.70 trillion) at the end of June 2019, economists are almost unanimous in opposition to President Muhammadu Buhari’s request to the… December 9, 2019 In "Business"