A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, yesterday fixed January 12, 2021, to rule on an application filed by a businessman, Jimoh Ibrahim, seeking the reversal of an interim court order which authorised the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria to take over his properties over alleged N69.4billion. Justice Rilwan Aikawa adjourned the ruling after listening to the arguments of counsel to AMCON Mr. KemiPinheiro SAN, as well as a lawyer to Nicon Investment Limited and Global Fleet Oil and Gas Limited, Adenrele Adegborioye. Pinheiro while moving his counter-affidavit, informed Justice Rilwan Aikawa that his counter-affidavit filed in opposition to the motion to discharge the expertise order revealed copious reasons why the order should not be set aside. He said that the various exhibit attached to the counter affidavit established that the properties attached belongs to the defendant, therefore he can not claim innocent of them. Ibrahim and his firms prayed the court to order AMCON to pay them N50billion indemnity for their alleged “failure to conduct due diligence before obtaining the said order sought to be set aside and for misrepresentation and concealment of fact.” But AMCON’s lawyer, Pinheiro, opposed the defendants’ Motion on Notice and prayed the court to dismiss same. A lawyer in AMCON’s legal department, Imelda Raheem, said, “The plaintiff, at the time of obtaining the orders on the 4th day of November 2020, made full and substantial disclosure of all material facts in relation to the subject matter of this suit.” Following the seizure order made by Justice Rilwan Aikawa on November 4, AMCON took over 12 properties belonging to Ibrahim and his firms. The properties included the NICON Investment Limited building Plot 242, Muhammadu Buhari Way, Central Business District, Abuja; NICON Hotels Limited building at Plot 557, Port-Harcourt Crescent, off Gimbiya Street, Abuja and the building of NICON Lekki Limited also at No. 5, Customs Street, Lagos. lagos—A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, yesterday, ordered the final forfeiture of N28.5 million and some properties belonging to Mr. Jamiu Anifowoshe, a Director of Finance in the Public Works Department of Lagos State, to the Federal Government, for being proceeds of unlawful activities. February 1, 2018 In "News" A Lagos High Court sitting in Ikeja yesterday fixed February 15, 2017 to rule on an application filed by Mr Goodie Ibru and others asking the court to strike out the fraud charges pressed against them by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. December 14, 2016 In "News" Justice Rilwan Aikawa of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos has adjourned to June 28, 2018 for ruling on a motion filed by Muhammed Dele Belgore, SAN, seeking an order of the court to expunge the charge brought against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. June 26, 2018 In "News"