Another governorship candidate in the 2019 election in Adamawa state, Chief Emmanuel Bello, has decamped to the All Progressive Party, APC. This brings to two the number of governorship candidates that have decamped to the APC ahead of the 2023 election. The governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress, ADC, Commander Abdulaziz Nyako had earlier dumped the party for APC. The duo while dumping their parties said they are dissatisfied with the present leadership style of the PDP led government in the state. The ADC candidate, Abdulaziz Nyako, who has been in alliance with the present PDP government in the state stated that he left the party for his former party, APC, for better governance ahead of 2023 general elections. On his part, Chief Emmanuel Bello, a former member of the House of Representatives said he decided to join the APC after a meeting with six Governors from the party, and believe that his move will change the political narrative of the state. Emmanuel had represented Gombi/Hong from 2007 to 2011in the House of Representative. He revealed that he has since formalised his membership with the ruling party. “It’s a time to take over Adamawa as a party, the current government in the state is anti-people,” Bello said With this development, political analysts said the current governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, and the ruling party (PDP) in the state have a lot of jobs to do as the 2023 elections draw close. Vanguard News Nigeria In politics, anything can happen. Or who would have imagined that the Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, regarded as political warlord and kingmaker in his state, Kwara would lose an election to return to the senate? Or Oyo State governor, Abiola Ajimobi who could not move his people to vote… March 9, 2019 In "Headlines" THIRTY-FOUR days to the January 14, 2012 governorship election, Adamawa State political landscape is astir with leading contenders intensifying moves to outwit one another. December 11, 2011 In "Politics" The All Progressives Congress (APC) and African Democratic Congress (ADC) have announced plans to merge in Adamawa ahead of the 2023 governorship election in the state. The parties said this would enable them to wrest power from the ruling  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. Speaking at a  meeting… December 6, 2020 In "Politics"