Ghana’s opposition leader John Mahama, runner-up in this month’s disputed presidential election, filed a case before the Supreme Court seeking a rerun of the vote which he has rejected as “fraudulent”. He asked the court for an “order of mandatory injunction directing the Electoral Commission to proceed to conduct a second election”. The petition charges that the announcement on December 9, two days after the vote, of victory for Mahama’s arch-rival Nana Akufo-Addo was “unconstitutional, null and void and of no effect whatsoever”. The announcement was “made arbitrarily, capriciously, and with bias”, the petition reads. Mahama, 62, also wants the court to restrain Akufo-Addo from “holding himself out as president-elect”. The electoral commission declared 76-year-old Akufo-Addo winner with 51.59 percent of the vote, followed by Mahama with 47.36 percent. Mahama told a news conference afterwards: “I stand before you tonight unwilling to accept the fictionalised results of a flawed election. We will take all legitimate steps to reverse this tragedy of justice.” Observers, both Ghanaian and foreign, viewed polling in the West Africa country as generally free and fair, but police said five people were killed and 19 injured in election-related violence. Akufo-Addo and Mahama had signed a symbolic peace pact ahead of the vote. It was the third election battle between the rivals, and in 2012 it was Akufo-Addo who contested Mahama’s win. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Ghana's opposition candidate Nana Akufo-Addo confidently boasted of impending victory as tensions mount in the country over delays in releasing the results of a nail-biting presidential election tainted by violence. December 8, 2016 In "News" By Nwafor Sunday The presidential candidate of the New Patriotic Party (NPP), and the incumbent president of Ghana, Nana Akufo-Addo has been declared winner of 2020 presidential election. Akufo-Addo polled 6,730,430 votes to defeat his opponent the former President, John Mahama, who contested under the National Democratic Congress. READ ALSO:… December 9, 2020 In "News" Ghana's opposition candidate John Mahama on Thursday rejected as "fraudulent" the results of the country's presidential and parliamentary elections in which President Nana Akufo-Addo won a second term. Challenging election results could test the stability of the west African nation, where previous electoral grievances have been pursued through the courts. A… December 11, 2020 In "Foreign"