The Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry  Enugu Nigeria, AMEN, Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka has officially reacted to the BBC report that claimed it’s reporters were attacked by Mbaka and his faithfuls. In Mbaka’s official position on the matter, the Adoration spokesman, Mr Maximus Ugwuoke, both Fr. Mbaka and the entire Adoration family were not aware of the presence of the BBC team on the Adoration ground to interview the Spiritual leader. Ugwuoke narrated that what took place was that the BBC team swooped on Fr Mbaka in espionage with a detracting priest from Anambra state and were confronted by the AMEN security operatives. Ugwuoke insisted that the BBC was never invited to interview the Adoration spiritual leader. According to Ugwuoke: “We make haste to state that the report was a carefully crafted mendacious narrative calculated to tarnish the image of Fr Mbaka who in his amiable nature could not have done or directed any of those alleged acts of assault on the BBC team or anyone as alleged against him. “An eye witness account of what happened reveals that one Fr Obiekeze (Cajetan) who estranged himself from the ministry and made a viral video with BBC recently abusing Fr Mbaka and his perceived romance with President Mohammadu Buhari, came to join Fr Mbaka at the altar during his last Wednesday’s weekly ministry programme. “The said Fr Obiekezie persistently insisted that Fr Mbaka should grant him an interview at his altar. Fr Mbaka in his loving, forgiving and welcoming nature embraced the said priest but however declined the priest’s demand to interview him at the altar wondering when the said priest became a media practitioner and the organization he was working for. “Unknown to anyone in the ministry, the said priest came with some persons with an unknown identity who were secretly recording the day’s ministry programme until they were accosted by the ministry security suspecting them to be assassins on a surveillant mission. The said ministry security seized the equipment of the strange fellows and sought to know their identities. “Later in the evening after Fr Mbaka was through with the programme and retired to the parish house to continue his consultation with worshippers waiting to see him, altercations between the fellows and the security men at Fr Mbaka’s parish house drew Fr Mbaka’s attention to them and his timely intervention helped to save the situation. “Fr Mbaka was surprised when the unknown fellows identified themselves as coming from BBC with Fr Obiekezie. Surprised by such obvious betrayal and stage-managed visit from a fellow priest,  Fr Mbaka directed that every of their seized equipment be returned to them and made sure no one hurt either the priest or the unknown visitors he surreptitiously came with. “Fr Mbaka nor the ministry never invited the said BBC team to the ministry neither was Fr Mbaka nor the ministry notified of their presence by anyone as alleged.” Vanguard News Nigeria ENUGU— THE Founder and Director of Adoration Ministry, Emene, Enugu, AMEN, Rev Fr. Ejike Mbaka, has refuted a purported prophesy reported in the social media, alleging that he predicted that the new Bayelsa governor will stay only two months in office. February 18, 2020 In "News" Controversial Catholic priest of Enugu Adoration Ministry, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, yesterday, alleged that there was an assassination attempt on him in Enugu, saying it was politically motivated. December 9, 2018 In "News" Controversial Catholic priest of Enugu Adoration ministry, Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka has inferred that the Catholic church may have had a hand in his latest alleged assassination attempt. December 8, 2018 In "News"