THE Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR, has shortlisted 161 successful companies for the final stage of the bid round, targeted at selling Nigeria’s 57 marginal oilfields. Mr. Paul Osu, Head, Public Affairs, DPR, disclosed on Thursday in Lagos that the firms were selected from the over 600 companies which applied for pre-qualification. A marginal field is any field that has reserves booked and reported annually to the DPR and has remained idle for a period of over 10 years. He said: “The 2020 marginal oilfield bid round process is still ongoing in line with our published timelines on the DPR website and bid portal. “The current status is that 161 successful companies have been short-listed to advance to the next and final stage of the process.” According to him, the bid rounds began on June 1, adding that the DPR had put measures in place to ensure that the awardees would be credible investors with technical and financial capability. He said the objective of the 2020 marginal field bid round is to deepen the participation of indigenous companies in the upstream segment of the industry and provide opportunities for technical and financial partnerships for investors. Osu said Nigeria last conducted marginal field bid rounds in 2003, with 16 of the fields now contributing two percent to the national oil and gas reserves, while bringing development to their host communities in the Niger Delta. The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) says the bid round process for its 57 marginal oilfields in the country is still ongoing. Mr Paul Osu, Head, Public Affairs, DPR, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Lagos that the bidding process has not been completed. “The 2020… October 30, 2020 In "News" The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) says there will not be a repeat of past mistakes made in previous exercises in the ongoing bid rounds for 57 marginal oilfields in the country. June 30, 2020 In "News" THE Depart- ment of Petroleum Resources, DPR, yesterday, disclosed that more than 600 companies have applied to be prequalified for the ongoing bid rounds of 57 marginal oilfields in the country. July 9, 2020 In "Business"