Malian opposition leader Soumaila Cisse has died of coronavirus aged 71, his family and party said Friday, after being held hostage for six months by jihadists earlier this year. Cisse “died in France, where he had been taken for Covid-19 care,” a member of his family told AFP. “I can confirm this terrible news. He’s dead,” a leader of Cisse’s URD party told AFP, saying the politician’s wife had let him know. Cisse was snatched by jihadists on March 25 while campaigning in the northeastern Timbuktu region ahead of legislative elections. He was freed six months later in October alongside Frenchwoman Sophie Petronin and two Italians. The hostages were exchanged for some 200 prisoners whose release was demanded by jihadist groups. “I was not subjected to any violence, either physical or verbal,” Cisse said following his release. A former leader of the opposition in parliament, Cisse was runner-up in three presidential elections. In 2013 and 2018, he was defeated by Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, who was ousted in an August 18 military coup. An engineer and IT specialist by training, Cisse studied in Senegal and France, where he worked for major companies including IBM before returning to Mali. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria An elderly French aid worker and a top Malian politician captured by presumed jihadists landed to emotional reunions with their families after their release along with two Italian hostages. A white-robed Sophie Petronin, 75, the last French citizen known to be held hostage anywhere in the world since her abduction… October 9, 2020 In "Foreign" Malian opposition leader Soumaila Cisse, who was kidnapped in March in a jihadist-ridden area ahead of key elections, has sent letters to his family, in their first contact since the abduction, the Red Cross said on Friday. "The ICRC (International Committee of the Red Cross) has handed letters from Mr… August 21, 2020 In "Foreign" Mali's President, Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, said on Tuesday that opposition leader Soumaila Cisse, who was kidnapped by gunmen in the West African state in March, is alive. In a speech in the capital Bamako, the president said the government had proof that Cisse was still alive after months in captivity.… June 17, 2020 In "Foreign"