Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, Corps Marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, has ordered a review of strategy for more effective enforcement on the use of speed-limiter, following increasing cases of speed-related crashes. The Corps Marshal directed Commanding Officers to step up enforcement of the law on the use of the speed-limiting device after a review of the first phase of end-of-year special patrol embarked on by FRSC. The Corps Marshal described the phenomenon as unacceptable, noting: “We must step up enforcement of the regulations on the use of the speed-limiting device in the second phase of the special operations and first quarter of next year to drastically force down the growing trends of speed-induced crashes. “The Commanding Officers are, hereby, given special directives on aggressive enforcement of the regulations on the use of the speed-limiting device to curb the rate of crashes and fatalities that speeding causes, as shown by the records of the first phase of the special operations. “Consequently, those that are operating without speed limiters or those using faulty ones, as well as those that have reset their own speed limiters to make them ineffective, must not be spared to endanger other road users.” Oyeyemi’s orders were revealed in a statement by the Corps Public Education Officer, Assistant Corps Marshal Bisi Kazeem, in Abuja on Sunday. The Corps Marshal noted that the increasing level of speed-induced crashes, as recorded within the period, was undermining the efforts of the Corps to ensure safer road environments. Kazeem further said that other causative factors such as route violation, dangerous driving and light sign violations were not completely ruled out in the records of crashes that occurred within the period. “However,” he added, “the reoccurring nature of speeding as a major factor was a source of deep concern to the Corps Marshal who has ordered for a review of the strategy for a more effective enforcement of the regulations on the use of speed-limiting device.” FRSC, as part of its annual special end of year patrol, had been engaged in special Christmas and new patrols codenamed “Drive Safe; Stay Safe”. This is to address the usual cases of traffic holdups, crashes, death and injuries resulting from increased human and vehicular traffic within the festive periods. The deployments of personnel and logistics to the major highways and identified black spots across the country is being done at the same time with traffic counts to determine the volume and types of vehicles that are plying the roads within the period for a more efficient future traffic management planning. The codename was chosen in view of the threats of COVID-19 pandemic and the need for members of the public, especially the road travellers, to operate in full compliance with road safety rules and regulations and strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. Vanguard reported that the enforcement of the mandatory speed-limiting devices in commercial vehicles officially began on Wednesday, February 1, 2017, after President Muhammadu Buhari endorsed the implementation of the mandatory installation of the device in October 2016. Earlier, the House of Representatives’ resolution of June 23, 2016, approved the introduction of speed limiter in accordance with the extant provisions of the FRSC Establishment Act(2007). Thereafter, FRSC embarked on extensive consultation with relevant stakeholders and elaborate public education programmes. However, until Corps Marshall Boboye Oyeyemi’s new orders on Sunday, installation of the speed limiters in vehicles and checks/enforcement by the Corps were negligible or even non-existence in some areas. Vanguard News Nigeria The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) says there is an upward trend in the rate of road traffic accidents involving private vehicles in the country. April 13, 2017 In "News" In view of the recent upsurge of overloading on the nation’s highways, and the challenges it poses to all field command operatives, the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has resorted to a more decisive measure to curb the effects of the menace of overloading by organizing a Special Intervention Patrol… November 2, 2016 In "News" On Wednesday, May 27, the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and stakeholders in the transport sector agreed to commence subtle enforcement(without booking) of the use of speed limiters in commercial vehicles from June 1, while, from September 1, full enforcement will commence. This decision is a shift from the initial… June 13, 2015 In "News"