France has not ruled out imposing a third nationwide lockdown if coronavirus cases continue to rise, its health minister said Sunday, as the country braces for a possible post-Christmas spike. “We will never exclude measures that are necessary to protect the public,” Olivier Veran told the Journal du Dimanche. “That is not to say we have made a decision, but that we are watching the situation hour by hour.” France has been registering around 15,000 new infections per day, and on Friday confirmed the first case of a new coronavirus variant that recently emerged in Britain. The new strain, which experts fear is more contagious, prompted more than 50 countries to impose travel restrictions on the UK. Following a snap 48-hour ban on UK arrivals this week, France has reopened its borders — partly to allow French citizens to return home but also to relieve the massive build-up of freight goods. On Saturday it took delivery of the first doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine it will use in its mass inoculation campaign. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria France has confirmed the first case of a new coronavirus variant that recently emerged in Britain, its health ministry said. The new strain of the virus, which experts fear is more contagious, has prompted more than 50 countries to impose travel restrictions on the UK. The first French case --… December 26, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The number of coronavirus deaths in France is rising for the first time since the end of lockdown, the public health agency said Friday, warning that all outbreak indicators are worsening. The country recorded 13,215 new cases in 24 hours, said the agency -- a new daily record since a… September 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" More than 1.88 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 119,168 have died, according to a Reuters tally, as of Tuesday. AMERICAS * Total confirmed cases rose to more than 584,000, with deaths exceeding 23,500 in the United States, according to a Reuters… April 14, 2020 In "News"