The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Aare Gani Adams, on Tuesday, said he does not have an reason to reconcile with former President Olusegun Obasanjo noting that his guarding angel will not forgive him if he reconciles with the former president. Aare Adams, who spoke at a press conference at his Omole residence in Lagos, berated the former president who cast aspersion on his character. It was recently reported that the former president and the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland had reconciled their 15 year old feud at Pa Ayo Adebanjo’s residence in Lagos. But Obasanjo dismissed the reconciliation saying he has no fight to warrant r­econciliation with Ad­ams. According to Obasanjo, “It is true that I pai­d a personal visit to­ Chief Ayo Adebanjo a­t his residence in Le­kki Phase 1 on Decemb­er 2, 2020 and I met ­Gani Adams there. “I have no quarrel wit­h Gani Adams, but for­ his past way of life­ which was not in acc­ord with my standards­ and principles. I h­ave in the past, both­ in government and ou­t of government, refu­sed to grant Gani’s r­equest to visit me.” However, reacting to Obasanjo’s remarks, Aare Adams said it was necessary for him to respond to the former president. Besides, Adams expressed worry over the state of insecurity in the country saying the “only way to address the state of insecurity is for us to restructure the country. When we restructure our security, we can have four levels of police. We can have the federal, regional, state and local government police.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Dapo Akinrefon The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Aare Gani Adams, on Tuesday, said he does not have a reason to reconcile with former President Olusegun Obasanjo noting that his guarding angel will not forgive him if he reconciles with the former president. Aare Adams, who spoke at a press… December 8, 2020 In "News" By Dapo Akinrefon & James Ogunnaike FORMER President Olusegun Obasanjo and the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, yesterday, met to reconcile and settled a 15-year-old rift. The reconciliation was held at the Lekki residence of the Afenifere leader, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, The meeting, held behind closed door, had… December 3, 2020 In "News" By James Ogunnaike Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo on Wednesday said that he had no quarrel with the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Chief Gani Adams that would have warranted reconciliation. Obasanjo, made the clarification in a statement issued by his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi, in Abeokuta, the Ogun… December 2, 2020 In "News"