Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, wants the Federal Government to halt all flights to and from the United Kingdom as a second wave of the pandemic continues to ravage it. Atiku made the call on Sunday in a series of tweets where he explained that the reason Nigeria took a harder-than-necessary hit during the first wave was because the Federal Government failed to heed warnings of well-meaning Nigerians. He further opined that Nigeria’s health sector is not sufficiently prepared to handle a sudden and unpredictable surge of the pandemic. He advised that Nigeria must take necessary precautions due to the volume of air traffic between Nigerian airports and London, where this new strain has erupted. Read his tweets below… The reason Nigeria took a harder than necessary hit during the first wave of the #COVID19 virus is that the Federal Government failed to heed the warnings of well-meaning Nigerians, like myself and others, to shut down our borders once the virus became a pandemic. — Atiku Abubakar (@atiku) December 20, 2020  Hindsight is 20/20. Nevertheless, we must learn from history, or we stand the risk of repeating it. — Atiku Abubakar (@atiku) December 20, 2020  The new strain of COVID19 that has erupted in the United Kingdom, and specifically, London, can add to Nigeria’s health emergency if we do not act with an abundance of caution and temporarily halt all flights to and from the UK until this new strain is brought under control. — Atiku Abubakar (@atiku) December 20, 2020  Already, prudent nations are taking prompt action, and Nigeria must take necessary precautions due to the volume of air traffic between Nigerian airports and London, where this new strain has erupted. — Atiku Abubakar (@atiku) December 20, 2020  We must face the reality that our health sector is not sufficiently prepared to handle a sudden and unpredictable surge of this pandemic. We have already lost lives needlessly. We need not lose more. In the case of this virus, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. — Atiku Abubakar (@atiku) December 20, 2020  Vanguard News Nigeria …65 per cent of Nigerian returnees evading tests — FG …Passports of erring travellers to be seized ..Second lockdown looms, Lagos govt warns …Alerts residents on possible second wave of infections ..Harps on strict adherence to safety protocols …As NMA cautions Nigerians against second wave By Sola Ogundipe, Health Editor,… November 4, 2020 In "Health" Senator representing Bayelsa East district, Senator Ben Murray-Bruce has urged the elder statesman and former Special Adviser to Second Republic President Shehu Shagari, Alhaji Tanko Yakassai, to be properly guided on his stance on restructuring which he used as basis to attack the former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar,… July 30, 2017 In "News" --Calls for suspension of debt payments By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA - THE Organized labour in Nigeria has expressed displeasure over the exclusion of Nigeria among the 25 poor countries benefitting from the debt relief services by the International Monetary Fund, IMF. The generosity of the IMF, was to help the… April 14, 2020 In "News"