FORMER Minister of State for Education and a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic  Party, PDP, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi has decried the security situation in Nigeria and called for emergency actions to save the country. Gbagi, who is aspiring to govern Delta State in 2023 on the banner of PDP, decried the state of affairs in the country, lamenting that Nigeria is failing on many fronts. Speaking at a meeting with indigenes of Delta North Senatorial district, in Lagos, Gbagi said that if proactive measures were not taken, the insecurity issue will overwhelm the country. He pointed out that there is no need for security chiefs to surround themselves with heavy security personnel when the citizens are not protected. On Delta, Gbagi, whose Delta Central senatorial zone is favoured to produce the next governor going by the power-sharing arrangement in the state, said Delta deserves the best in 2023 and he is the best man to succeed Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Presenting his blueprint tagged “For the greater Delta State 2023,” Gbagi said he has been very instrumental, influential and on ground for every government that ruled the country since 1999, adding that he would improve on the fortunes of Delta, if elected. On education, he mentioned that existing schools in the state will be made viable and that each local government area in Delta State will get four new secondary schools with boarding houses. He noted that the essence of having such is for students to move from their locations of living to another, as a learning process. Gbagi, who recalled that in his 13 months as Minister of State, Education, he created 13 new universities under 13 months, said that government should not have business running schools which he said should be handed over to private investors for effective and productive utilisation. On the economy, Gbagi stated that as the highest investor in the Delta State, he would bring his entrepreneurial acumen to bear, noting also that government involvement in the business will cease. He said that he will use the instrument of government to boost business in the state by attracting more investors with free land allocation for investments. On tourism and entertainment, he promised to make Delta State the new hub for leisure destination. He noted that Delta State posses the highest number of entertainers such as musicians and comedians and he will draw up an initiative that will bring the entire entertainers together as one body. Noting that Niger Delta had untapped tourism resources, he added that creating new projects for tourism will attract fun seekers to the state, get the youths employed and keep them off militancy. Olorogun Gbagi said that creating a new seaport will be one of his top priorities, saying he sees no reason businessmen in the southern part of the country should suffer much to have their goods delivered from one port. On insecurity, Gbagi said that as a trained criminologist, he would deploy strategies to tackle insecurity headlong so as to give investors and tourists the confidence that Delta State is safe for business. Fielding questions from participants, Gbagi noted that based on his core agenda which will be hinged on education, seaport, health, agriculture, tourism among others he will develop Delta and boost development in Niger Delta. In response to his appeal for support, the Delta North Senatorial district stakeholders pledged a massive approval of his declaration. Speaking, Cassy D, a younger brother to late reggae artiste, Ras Kimono, said he would mobilise all his members to vote for Gbagi, noting that he did it before for all the former governors in the state. Several speakers spoke in like manner, adding that Gbagi is their in-law, having married from Delta North. Vanguard News Nigeria  FORMER Minister of State for Education, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, weekend, announced his entrance into the 2015 governorship race in Delta State. July 7, 2014 In "News" FORMER Minister of State, Education and chieftain of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, has said that come 2015 governorship election in Delta State, he will emerge the winner as he was the only candidate with the road map to take Delta State to the promised land. December 2, 2013 In "News" In a move described by many political observers as “slow, steady and progressive,” the coming into the race for the Asaba Government House by no less a person than Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, has changed the political firmament, temperature, arithmetic... as his challenge has thrown a spanner into the works of… July 29, 2020 In "Viewpoint"