The leadership of the Coalition of Northern Groups, CNG, has relocated to Katsina town so as to push for the release of the abducted students still under captivity. CNG officials would join other members from Jigawa, Kano and Katsina in the take off of indefinite protests to compel action to rescue the hundreds of students abducted fast, alive and safe. Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, CNG spokesperson, said on Thursday that the exercise, harsh tagged #Bringbackourboys which will kick off in Katsina on Thursday, ” is expected to proceed to Daura to register the current concerns with Mr President.” Led by its Board of Trustees Chairman Nastura Ashir Shariff, the CNG is already in touch with parents of the stolen school children and assured them of support through this trial moment. Suleiman said “it will be unreasonable to expect any northerner and well meaning Nigerians to fold their arms and watch the North, a significant component of the country abandoned to the mercy of bandits and murderers and kidnappers.” “The police in Katsina is seen in a massive reinforcement around the state which calls for caution on the part of authorities against attempts at suppressing legitimate protests that will be conducted peacefully,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria kicks off #Bringbackourboys protests Set to meet Buhari in Daura By Ibrahim HassanWuyo The leadership of the Coalition of Northern Groups, CNG , has relocated to Katsina town so as to push for the release of the abducted students still under captivity. CNG officials would join other members from Jigawa,… December 16, 2020 In "News" By Bashir Bello A student (name withheld) of the attacked Government Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State who escaped from the bandits' hideouts said two of the students have been killed. A parent of a missing student, Hajia Faiza Hamza Kankara, who spoke to Vanguard said the survivor student stated… December 14, 2020 In "Metro" …Masari briefs Buhari, says talks on with kidnappers of Kankara schoolboys …Abduction confirms service chiefs not in charge — Northern elders …It’s wake-up call to rejig security apparatus — Middle Belt Group …Top operatives don’t want the insecurity to end — JNI …Another outrageous tragedy of worsening insecurity—NLC …Thugs disrupt… December 15, 2020 In "News"