Kaduna state governor. Mallam Nasir Elrufai has gone back to isolation after results of persons close to him, including an immediate family member tested positive for COVID-19. This latest development was made known on Kaduna State verified social media handle. Recall that VANGUARD had reported that at the peak of the pandemic in Nigeria, Governor Elrufai and other notable politicians who had tested positive, went into isolation and later tested negative to the virus after weeks medical treatment. Announcing this fresh isolation, The state government tweeted, “Malam Nasir has been notified of more positive Covid-19 test results of persons close to him, including an immediate family member and senior officials of the Kaduna State Government. As a precaution, he is in self-isolation pending a test by Sunday.” Recently, the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 had warned of a second wave of the pandemic in Nigeria, warning international travellers to observe all covid-19 protocols and ensure they are tested. In the same vein, the Health Ministry had earlier alerted that all isolation centres in the country be made ready in anticipation of fresh COVID-19 cases. SEE THE TWEET HERE:  Malam Nasir @elrufai has been notified of more positive Covid-19 test results of persons close to him, including an immediate family member and senior officials of the Kaduna State Government. As a precaution, he is in self-isolation pending a test by Sunday. pic.twitter.com/22QuRkyGqj — Governor Kaduna (@GovKaduna) December 11, 2020  Vanguard News Nigeria By David Royal Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai has tested positive for coronavirus (COVID-19). The governor confirmed his test results in a recorded video released on Saturday evening on Kaduna state government social media accounts. KADUNA UPDATE: Malam Nasir @elrufai has disclosed that he has tested positive for Covid-19.… March 28, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Rasheed Sobowale Most people last year were looking forward to the 2020 New Year, catapulting some resolution they were unable to achieve with a determination and promise of commitment to see them through. Unknowingly for all, 2020 has a different plan for the world. The year 2019 left a… July 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has tested positive for coronavirus. He has since gone into self-isolation as required by the case management guidelines of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC. March 28, 2020 In "News"