The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, has said that the Federal Government was substantially ready for a successful COVID-19 vaccination to save lives of citizens. Ehanire made this known on Monday in Abuja while briefing the Senate leadership on the Federal Government plans to procure COVID-19 vaccines worth N400 billion for citizens. The minister noted that the country which had successfully fought polio, would use the same storage facilities (cold chains) to store the COVID-19 vaccines. He urged the Senate to have confidence in the plan for COVID-19 vaccine campaign. He said that about N400 billion would be required to vaccinate 70 per cent of Nigeria’s 211 million population, at eight dollars per person. According to him, N156 billion will be needed in 2021 while N200 billion in 2022. In his remarks, President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan expressed doubt over the ability of the Federal Ministry of Health to effectively store and distribute the COVID-19 vaccines when they arrive in the country. Lawan said the National Assembly was ready to support the funding of adequate vaccines to save Nigerians. He noted that officials of the Ministry of Health must convince the parliament that they had adequate facilities and manpower to protect the preventive substance. “I have not been convinced with your presentation that we are ready to bring in the vaccines. “You have to do much more to convince me that we are ready,” he added. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says the Federal Government intends to examine every possible option in the development and distribution of a vaccine against the COVID-19 disease. August 5, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has announced plans to set up a modern vaccine production company in Nigeria to encourage licensed indigenous production of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) vaccines. November 3, 2020 In "News" Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says the Federal Government intends to examine every possible option in the development and distribution of a vaccine against the COVID-19 disease. Osinbajo’s spokesman, Laolu Akande, in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja, said the vice president spoke at a virtual meeting with representatives of Pfizer… August 6, 2020 In "News"