The Abuja Municipal Area Council, AMAC, Executive Chairman, Hon. Abdullahi Adamu Candido, has enjoined citizens to emulate the virtues of Jesus Christ so that the world could be peaceful. He also extended Christmas greetings to all Christians faithful in the Area Council and wished them a very happy Christmas. Candido who described this season as a period where the virtues of Jesus Christ have to be demonstrated by all and sundry, urged the residents to emulate him so that the world could be peaceful. While congratulating the Christians community as they celebrate this Christmas, he enjoined them all to eshrew bitterness, love each other, live in accordance to the Christiandom and celebrate in peace. According to him, “Christmas is a period where the virtues of Jesus Christ have to be demonstrated by all citizens as Jesus Christ lived and died for us, because of that we must have to do everything possible to emulate Him so that the world can be peaceful. “And it is my appeal to the residents of Abuja Municipal Area Council to eschew bitterness, live with one another, love each other and live in accordance to the Christiandom since Jesus Christ Himself is peace and that is what he lived and died for.” On the second wave of Covid-19, Candido called on the residents to further comply with the directives, by wearing face masks and observing strictly other protocols as we celebrate so as to prevent the spread of Covid-19 while encouraging all to stay safe in the Area Council. Vanguard News Nigeria AS Nigerian Christians join other faithful across the world today to celebrate Christmas, Senate President Bukola Saraki, his deputy, Senator Ike Ekweremadu and former Senate President, Senator David Mark have urged Christians to pray for peace, love and unity of the country. December 25, 2017 In "News" The Abuja Municipal Area Council, AMAC, Chairman, Hon. Abdullahi Adamu Candido has called on Christian faithfuls in the Area Council to use this Easter celebration to pray fervently for the defeat of novel coronavirus, COVID-19, pandemic. April 13, 2020 In "News" POLITICAL leaders in Nigeria including President Goodluck Jonathan, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Senate President, Senator David Mark, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Dimeji Bankole and several state governors have all recognised the need to pray for a peaceful conduct of next year’s elections as they conveyed their… December 25, 2010 In "News"