Cristiano Ronaldo has added another coveted accolade to his growing collection as he was awarded the Player of the Century award at the Globe Soccer Awards. The Juventus forward, a five-time Balon d’Or winner, smiled on stage in Dubai as he was named the greatest football player from 2001 to 2020. His latest trophy follows a successful for few weeks for the Portuguese talisman after he was awarded the Golden Foot award, which was first introduced in 2003, for players aged 28 or above and can only be won by a recipient once in their career. Despite only being 20 years into the current century, Ronaldo was not the only individual to be celebrated with an award spanning across the 100-year period. Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola won the coach of the century award, following his emphatic reigns in charge of Barcelona and Bayern Munich before his move to the Premier League. Meanwhile, Ronaldo’s agent Jorge Mendes picked up one of the stranger accolades of the ceremony, with the agent of the century trophy. Ronaldo’s former club Real Madrid were labelled as the club of the century, after winning five Champions League titles and seven LaLiga’s during the last 20 years. Other award winners at the ceremony included Champions League winners Bayern Munich, who won the club of the year award for 2020. Bayern striker Robert Lewandowski was crowed player of the year, beating Ronaldo and Barcelona’s Lionel Messi. FIFA president Gianni Infantino was present at the ceremony and addressed the audience at the 15th Dubai International Sports Conference.⁣ The 35-year-old Ronaldo has shown no signs of ageing after he scored a huge 44 goals for club and country in 2020. Only Bayern Munich striker Robert Lewandowski scored more than the former Real Madrid and Manchester United attacker. Ronaldo’s rival Lionel Messi, who was snubbed at the awards ceremony, fell short of the pair with just 26 goals for Barcelona and Argentina this year. The Old Lady’s frontman has also been making a mark on a more domestic level, after he became just the fourth player in Serie A history to score at least 33 goals in a calendar year after finding the net twice against Parma on December 19. Ronaldo scored once in each half to see Juventus win 4-0 and move level on points with Inter and one adrift of leaders AC Milan. Ronaldo’s contribution has equalled that of former Juventus forward Omar Sivori from 1961 – who scored the joint-third most goals in a single year behind Gunnar Nordahl in 1950 and Felice Borel in 1933. Vanguard News Nigeria Real Madrid star Cristiano Ronaldo and Portugal's Euro 2016-winning coach Fernando Santos scooped the top prizes at the seventh edition of the Globe Soccer Awards in Dubai on Tuesday. December 27, 2016 In "Sports" At the Globe Soccer Awards in Dubai Monday, Barcelona star Lionel Messi took home the award for best player of 2015, beating out Cristiano Ronaldo and others. December 28, 2015 In "Sports" Cristiano Ronaldo said on Friday that he was "confident as always" of winning the upcoming Ballon D'Or for best player in the world. November 17, 2017 In "News"