In a bid to promote a strong and credible payment system in the country, the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, has    approved new license categorization for payment systems in Nigeria. In a circular to all Payment Service Providers, Banks and Other Financial institutions issued yesterday, the apex bank noted that payments system licensing has been streamlined according to permissible activities in four broad categories namely: Switching and Processing; Mobile Money Operations (MMOs); Payment Solution Services (PSSs); and Regulatory Sandbox. The circular signed by Director, Payment System Management Department, CBN, Musa Jimoh stated: “CBN in line with its commitment to promote a strong and credible payment system has approved new licence categorisations for the payments system. “The new licensing framework offers clarity for new and existing market participants given the significant evolution and innovation in the Nigerian payments system. “All payment service providers and other stakeholders are invited to note the following in this regard  that payments system licensing has been streamlined according to permissible activities in four broad categories: Switching and Processing; Mobile Money Operations (MMOs); Payment Solution Services (PSSs); and   Regulatory Sandbox.” According to the regulator, the minimum capital requirement for operating MMO is N2 billion, Switching and Processing N2 billion, PSS N250 million, Super Agent N50 million, Payment Solution Service Provider (PSSP) N100 million and Payment Terminal Service Provider (PTSP) N100 million. However, no minimum capital requirement is applicable for the operating of a Regulatory Sandbox. Vanguard News Nigeria The Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, yesterday issued regulations for the operations of indirect participants in payments system in a bid to develop digital financial services  in the country. October 11, 2019 In "News" By Mustapha Sumaila, Abuja Mr. Godwin Emefiele the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) says the implementation of cashless policy in six states of the federation is in public interest to promote an efficient payment system. Emefiele stated this while fielding questions from journalists after the Monetary Policy… September 20, 2019 In "Finance" The ticketing counters in most airlines reflect the high usage of cash in Nigeria. In addition to the airline staff that issue tickets, there are also about two banks’ staff, collecting cash on behalf of the airline. Consequently, passengers have to go through two points. They first pay through the… May 9, 2011 In "Finance"