The Ebonyi chapter of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) has urged the state government to prioritise development of the state’s educational sector. Mr Francis Elechi, Chairman, NUT Ebonyi said in Abakaliki on Thursday that prioritising the sector would enhance plans for better standards. Elechi described education as imperative to nation-building as improving the sector through the provision of infrastructure and increasing manpower would go a long way in developing the system. According to him, development in school system is not just by employment as putting infrastructure in place and creating enabling environment for learning are paramount. “First, we must consider the infrastructure and creating an enabling environment for learning. “There is need to prioritise the educational sector of the state; erect more classrooms, teachers quarters and library in various schools. “Yes, some of the schools have good structures supported by UBEC fund, we commend them. We must step up plans because education needs constant funding for it to grow,” he said. On the stakeholders input and consultative forum for 2021 budget, the NUT chairman said it was a very welcome development to the union and urged for more funding to the education sector. “We hail Gov. David Umahi on regular payment of teachers’ salaries. “The teachers in the state are always ready and committed in bringing standard to bear in the state’s educational system,” he said. (NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria ABAKALIKI - EBONYI chapter of the Nigeria Union of Teachers, NUT, yesterday in Abakaliki called for the re-introduction of supervisory head teachers to curb truancy in schools. August 15, 2012 In "News" THE Universal Basic Education Board, UBEB, Ebonyi State , has stated that considering the enormous benefits that go with the acquisition of education in any country, no amount plunged into the sector should be regarded as a wasted undertaking. November 24, 2010 In "News" LAGOS—GOVERNOR Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State has described teachers as nation builders, change agents and catalysts for the realisation of any meaningful, functional and effective education delivery to drive national development. October 6, 2017 In "News"