To overcome the challenge occasioned a huge demand for the NIN with a large crowd visiting the NIMC Enrolment Centers nationwide, the Commission has adopted booking system for NIN enrolment. A statement issued on Tuesday by the Commission  signed by the Head of Corporate  Communications, Mr. Kayode Adegoke, the Commission said it adopted a couple of measures to contain the spread of the virus whilst ensuring its services to Nigerians are not entirely interrupted. Recall that the recent Federal Government policy which requires mobile network subscribers to update their SIM registration with a valid National Identification Number (NIN) has occasioned a huge demand for the NIN with a large crowd visiting the NIMC Enrolment Centers nationwide. According to the statement, effective December 30, 2020, attending to applicants would be based on Booking System. For Bookings, applicants are to visit any of the NIMC Offices closest to them during stipulated business hours (9 am – 1 pm). Although, the policy has been in place since 4th February 2020 applicants are now crowding all the centers. It informed that personal information would be collected for the sole purpose of scheduling an enrolment appointment, urging subscribers not to include any personal information other than what is required by the booking register. It further explained that once admitted into the office, a Number-Issuing queue management system will be in place to ensure orderliness and strict adherence to Covid-19 Protocols. The statement reads in part: “The recent Federal Government policy which requires mobile network subscribers to update their SIM registration with a valid National Identification Number (NIN) has occasioned a huge demand for the NIN with a large crowd visiting the NIMC Enrolment Centers nationwide. “Mindful of the second wave of the COVID-19 which continues to severely affect public health and cause unprecedented disruptions, the Commission wishes to announce that it has adopted a couple of measures to contain the spread of the virus whilst ensuring its services to Nigerians are not entirely interrupted. “Effective December 30, 2020, attending to applicants would be based on Booking System. For Bookings, applicants are to visit any of the NIMC Offices closest to them during stipulated business hours (9 am – 1 pm). Although the policy has been in place since 4th February 2020 applicants are now crowding all the centers. “Personal Information would be collected for the sole purpose of scheduling an enrolment appointment. Please do not include any personal information other than what is required by the booking register. “Once admitted into the office, a Number-Issuing queue management system will be in place to ensure orderliness and strict adherence to Covid-19 Protocols.” “As a responsible Commission we fully understand that safety comes first, as such, only individuals with facemask would be allowed entrance into our premises.” It urged the general public to cooperate with it as it deploys its staff to work assiduously to respond to the new normal. Vanguard News Nigeria By Emmanuel Elebeke To overcome the challenge of huge demand for the National Identification Number, NIN, with a large crowd visiting the National Identification Management Commission, NIMC, enrolment centres nationwide, the commission  has adopted booking system for NIN enrolment. A statement, yesterday, by the Commission’s  Head of Corporate  Communications, Mr… December 30, 2020 In "News" By Rasheed Sobowale The Federal Government of Nigeria in its bid to stem criminal activities has through the Nigeria Communication Commission (NCC) mandated that all Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) be linked with National Identity Number (NIN). This is to allow governmental and other accredited agencies to be able to access… December 24, 2020 In "Technology" …Say it's impossible to link 170m subscribers' lines with NIN in 2 weeks …Unjustifiable, unnecessary, stop it, SERAP tells Buhari …Lawyer drags FG, NCC to court over NIN registration deadline By Victor Ahiuma-Young, Olasunkanmi Akoni & By Henry Ojelu Workers in the nation's Communications industry under the aegis of Private… December 21, 2020 In "Technology"