GOVERNOR Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State on Monday briefed President Muhammadu Buhari on the steady progress to rescue the children kidnapped from Government Science Secondary School, Kankara of the state. A statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said that the briefing where the governor revealed that the kidnappers had made contact, took place in President Buhari’s Daura country house. “We are making progress and the outlook is positive,’’ the Governor told newsmen after an hour meeting with the President, which started at 2pm. The Governor, who according to the statement was accompanied by the Deputy Governor of the state, Manir Yakubu, said “the kidnappers had made contact and discussions were already on pertaining to safety and return to their homes.” Governor Masari also noted that security agencies had located the position of the children. The Governor said the President was fully committed to the rescue of the school children, adding that it was only appropriate to visit the President and give him more details of rescue efforts. Vanguard News Nigeria *We rescued 200—Police *Over 406 found – Commissioner *Masari closes all schools *Buhari orders army, police to go after attackers *Atiku faults security agencies’ style By Bashir Bello There was confusion, yesterday, over the actual number of students kidnapped  at  Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Kankara Local Government Area… December 13, 2020 In "News" By Bashir Bello A student (name withheld) of the attacked Government Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State who escaped from the bandits' hideouts said two of the students have been killed. A parent of a missing student, Hajia Faiza Hamza Kankara, who spoke to Vanguard said the survivor student stated… December 14, 2020 In "Metro" By Bashir Bello, Dirisu Yakubu, Gabriel Olawale, Charly Agwam & Olayinka Latona Protests yesterday rocked Kankara in Kankara Local Government Area of Katsina State, following the abduction of students of Government Senior Secondary School, GSSS, in the town by bandits on Friday night. The protests came on a day governor… December 14, 2020 In "News"