Chairman Benue State Civil Service Commission and former Minister of State for Education, Prof. Jerry Agada is dead. Prof. Agada an educationist and author died Tuesday morning at the Federal Medical Centre, FMC, Makurdi. Though no official statement has been issued by the family of the former President of Association of Nigeria Author, ANA, and Chairman, Governing Board of the National Commission for College of Education, NCCE, but a close family source disclosed that he took ill two weeks ago and was on admission when he passed on. Born on 11 November 1952 at Orokam in Ogbadibo Local Government Area of Benue State, Prof. Agada, a career civil servant was appointed the Executive Secretary, Benue State Examinations Board, 1996. He rose to the peak of his career and became Permanent Secretary, Benue State Ministry of Information, Youth, Sports and Culture in 1999. He served in the same capacity in the Ministry of Education, Benue State Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs and the Benue State Bureau of Political Affairs before his retirement in 2006. He also contested the governorship election in Benue in 2007. Vanguard News Nigeria Makurdi......Former Minister of State for Education, Prof. Jerry Agada has advised the federal government to invest more in the educational sector to avail Nigeria's teeming youths greater opportunities to acquire formal education and be better developed citizens. August 6, 2019 In "Education" Following claims by the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu that Benue state would be part of the supposed Biafra Republic, former Ministers, Traditional ruler and leaders of thought of the state have lashed out at the Biafran leader for his proposition. July 24, 2017 In "News" Prof. Jerry Agada was a former Minister of State for Education in the immediate past administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan, Adviser to former National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and Secretary of the party’s Elders Committee in Benue State. In this interview, he spoke on why his… June 25, 2015 In "News"