The Chief of Army Staff (COAS),  Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has urged troops not to be distracted by the move by International Criminal Court (ICC) to investigate war crimes against Nigerian forces in the north eastern part of the country. Buratai made the call in a statement by the Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Sagir Musa, on Saturday in Abuja. He said that the call followed the Friday statement from ICC prosecutor,  alleging that there were reasonable basis to believe that “members of the Nigerian Security Forces (NSF)” had committed acts constituting crimes against humanity and war crimes. According to him, the ICC statement is immediately followed by a release by the local branch of Amnesty International (AI) in Nigeria, demanding full investigation of atrocities by Nigerian forces. Buratai said there was no doubt that such statement and instigation could distract the Nigerian  troops with its demoralising effects. He said it could have negative consequences on troops morale, interest in military service by Nigerians and severe setback to all Nigeria’s internal security operations. The COAS also enjoined troops to ignore what he described as “wicked and unnecessary distractions”, directing them to fully concentrate on the final defeat of Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists groups which is in sight. He also charged the troops to work hard and be guided by the constitution of Nigeria, the Rules of Engagement, the Code of Conduct and the Standing Operating Procedures for all Nigerian Army Operations. According to him, the Nigerian army is not only protecting human rights but also sustaining human rights nationally and globally. “Our professional conduct over the years and most recently,  during the #ENDSARS protest at Lekki village near Lagos are clear testimonies to the Nigerian army’s posture on promoting sustainable human rights policy. “The Nigerian army wishes to advise local or international organisations not to allow themselves be used to destabilise or destroy the troops’ morale by the sponsors of mischief in Nigeria,” he said. Army spokesperson, Musa, disclosed that Buratai was currently on self-isolation as part of precaution against the  COVID-19 infection. Musa said that the COAS would soon join the troops in the north eastern part of the country at the end of the mandatory isolation period to continue giving them the  desired leadership and support.  Vanguard News Nigeria The Arewa Crusaders Against Banditry (ACAB) has hailed the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai and troops for the rapid success of Operation Sahel Sanity in the northwest. August 18, 2020 In "News" The Directorate of Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB has said the only credible entity which can carry out in-depth investigation into the shootings and killings of unarmed Biafrans in Aba, Abia state on February 9, 2016 is the International Criminal Court, ICC based in Hague. March 23, 2016 In "News" A human rights group, International Society for Civil Liberties and the Rule of Law, Intersociety, has called for international enquiries to be carried out into the Zaria Army massacre and the Onitsha military killings. December 17, 2015 In "News"