By Agbonkhese Oboh Professionally managing human resources in homes, offices and government will get the country out of economic recession, as it will cut cost, stem wastage and prevent avoidable disasters. This was the position of Mr. Abell Minna, Registrar/CEO of Chartered Institute of Human Resources and Strategic Management, CIHRSM. Minna spoke to newsmen at the Institute’s annual conference in Lagos, where the investiture of fellows and new members was also held. Speaking earlier along the same lines was Dr. Augustine Agugua, who stood in for Professor B. E. A. Oghojafor, President/Chairman of Council, CIHRSM. According to him, “Managing human resources in a decrepit and exploitative way is one of the challenges facing the country. “If emphasis is placed on service to humanity, with consideration for the human person rather than profit, Nigeria would recover and no subsequent economic recession will have so much impact on the economy.” For Minna, “The only way out of this recession is to apply professionalism in all aspects of life and work. Accountants, engineer, journalists— every professional— should deploy their skills in the right environment. “All the countries that are huge economically developed the individual, because everyone single person is a resource in a specific area. “Placing somebody with a particular (professional) skill in the wrong workspace is where Nigeria is lagging behind; no professionalism. “To get out of this recession, we must cut cost and to cut cost, professionals must work in their areas of expertise. This where human resources managers come in. “This will minimise the risk of wastage in terms of time, manpower and finances, and reduce accidents. Otherwise, these will slow down the development of firms, local government, state and the country.” The Registrar noted that the investiture was for 80 fellows, 89 members, 100 associate members and 180 graduate members. Vanguard News Nigeria Registrar, Institute of Human Resources and Strategic Management, Mr. Minna Onomroba Abell has admonished every individual to acquire skill in area of human resources and strategic management to make them a better manager of people and resources. December 26, 2019 In "News" The problems of leadership in the country are rooted in the problems of individual Nigerians. So for the country to survive the current recession, everyone must imbibe self-mastery, desire higher knowledge, be creative, have strength of will and experience spiritual attunement. May 17, 2017 In "News" The Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria (CIPM) has set agenda to stimulate the economic transformation of Nigeria through human resources development during its forthcoming 43rd annual conference planned for Abuja between 26th to 28th October, 2011. August 17, 2011 In "Business"