Russia’s FSB security service said Saturday it had foiled an attack planned by a cell loyal to the Islamic State (IS) jihadist group in the country’s unstable southern republic of Dagestan, arresting four people. “Members of the group planned to detonate an explosive close to an administrative building belonging to security services, followed by an armed attack against interior ministry employees” in regional capital Makhachkala, the FSB said in a statement. As well as arresting four “members of the international IS terrorist group”, investigators found “firearms and bladed weapons, a large amount of ammunition and an explosive device”, it added, along with mobile phones containing “exchanges with organisers located abroad”. On December 17, police killed two attackers targeting security forces in Russia’s neighbouring republic of Chechnya. Six people were also killed during an October “counter-terrorism” operation in Chechnyan capital Grozny, including two members of the security forces. Russia’s territories in the Caucasus were ravaged by two wars between federal troops and Chechen separatists in the 1990s and 2000s. Increasingly Islamist in character, the insurgency spread to other republics in the region and declared allegiance to IS in 2015. While the jihadist group’s influence remains limited, occasional attacks against the authorities persist in Chechnya, Dagestan and neighbouring Ingushetia. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Russia said, on Monday, it has detained five suspected members of the Islamic State terrorist organisation in the country’s southern Rostov region. The Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) said in a statement that it “uncovered and stopped the activities of a conspiratorial cell of supporters of Islamic State in the… July 14, 2020 In "Foreign" Russia will reportedly deploy jamming devices used in Syria and the war in Ukraine to defend World Cup stadiums against a drone attack. May 21, 2018 In "Sports" Stung into action by the shooting down of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17, the EU put Russia's intelligence chiefs on its sanctions list Saturday as it readied much harsher measures against Moscow over the Ukraine crisis. The director of the FSB security service, Alexander Bortnikov, and the head of the Russian… July 26, 2014 In "News"