Apprehension has enveloped Ughelli metropolis in Ughelli North local government area of Delta State over a planned 2nd wave of #EndSARS protest slated for today (Monday). The protest according to a rights activists in the state, Comrade Joe Israel, is in response to the re-arrest of the videographer, Mr Nicholas Makolomi, who shot the October viral video alleging the killing of one Joshua by a team of police operatives in Ughelli. The protesters while vowing to cripple all forms of commercial activities in Ughelli, also cautioned the police particularly the Inspector General of Police to exercise restrain in the matter by not “disrupting the peace in Delta State” in the aftermath of the protest. Condemning the arrest of Nicholas, Comrade Isreal said: “I want to condemn in the strongest terms, the rearrest of Nicholas by the Inspector General of Police and call for his immediate release as the peace enjoyed in Delta state should not be jeopardised. “Personally, I would discourage any protest in the state due to the high level of insecurity. However, the government shouldn’t be negotiating with us on one hand and carrying out a vendetta in another vein. “The IG should not in anyway disrupt this peace which is being managed by the State government and the Delta state police command as the Monday protest builds. I call on the state governor and all stakeholders to ensure the unconditional release of Nicholas.” Speaking to Vanguard on the planned protest, a security source at the Police Area Command, Ughelli, hinted that policemen in the two police divisions in Ughelli have already been placed on high alert in readiness for any eventuality that might arise during the protest. Vanguard News Nigeria By Perez Brisibe - Ughelli Leaders of Ughelli kingdom particularly the autonomous communities within and around Ughelli metropolis in Ughelli North local government area of Delta State have been charged with the task of producing the missing AK47 rifle belonging to a policeman killed during the height of the EndSARS… October 12, 2020 In "Metro" Perez Brisibe, Ughelli A week after a policeman and an unidentified civilian were killed during the violent ENDSARS protest in Ughelli, Delta State, the protesters have returned to the streets in solidarity with other protesters across the country. The protesters who started their walk from the Otovwodo axis of Ughelli,… October 16, 2020 In "News" Warns Police will no longer tolerate attack on security personnel By Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja Against the backdrop of the murder of a Policeman and stealing of one AK 47 rifle with 25 rounds of ammunition by EndSARS protesters, the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu sued for an end… October 9, 2020 In "News"