A 42-year-old hairstylist, Adams Amakel Eguvwese has been shot dead in broad daylight as he sat outside his shop in Sapele, Delta State. The victim popularly known as ’10 over 10′ (the name of his barbing shop), was sitting in the front of his saloon along New road by Otite road junction in Sapele at about 5:45 p.m on Tuesday evening. when the gunman shot him. A source who simply gave his name as Nathaniel told Vanguard that the gunman came in a numberless blue toyota corolla car, “Adams was sitting outside his barbing saloon when the numberless blue Corolla came, a man holding a shotgun approached him and shot him, he (Adams) ran into the shop and the gunman went after him and shot him again at the entrance of his shop, before he got into the Corolla and drove away” he said in tears. Adams was said to have been rushed to the Sapele Central hospital where he gave up the ghost However another source who claimed to be at the scene craving anonymity, told Vanguard that Adams was brought back to his shop after Sapele Central hospital refered him to the Delta State University Teaching Hospital in Oghara…”those who rescued him came back that there was no fuel in their vehicle and the crowd who had gathered at the scene of the incident had to raise cash for him, and because Adams has lost so much blood in the process, he could not make it” the motive for the killing was not immediately clear. Vanguard News Nigeria IT was a bloody weekend in Sapele, Sapele Local Government Area of Delta State, as gunmen killed a bank manager and seven other persons at a drinking spot, opposite Okotie-Eboh Grammar School, in the town. March 19, 2012 In "News" Where will I start from? What will I do? Who do I call and tell my problems to? This world is wicked o! Why my son? They have taken my joy away. Heartless people took my joy away. Those who killed you will not see joy. Tears will continue to… October 6, 2019 In "News" SAPELE town in Delta State was thrown into confusion yesterday evening when a youth (name withheld), shot dead two other boys at Yoruba road over undisclosed reasons. January 4, 2010 In "News"