The Federal Government on Sunday says about 50 million dollars foreign investments already attracted into the economy for the support of various start ups in the country through its  digital economy and innovations policy. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ibrahim Pantami disclosed this while speaking with news men in Dubai,  United Arab Emirates,  shortly after unveiling the Nigeria Pavillion at the 40th Gulf Information Technology Exhibition, (GITEX 2020). The Minister noted that the journey of startups is a tough one,  but urged them to be consistent and steadfast as the breakthroughs might come after several years. According to him, Nigeria was not lacking in terms of innovative ideas, stating that it is the plan of the government to identify the challenges confronting the start-ups and see how government can assist them. The Minister pointed out that start-ups in Lagos and Abuja have really made Nigeria proud as they keep attracting foreign investments into the country. “The startups need to be mentored,  any start ups without mentorship cannot be successful on the platter of gold,  you need to be patient, and consistent. “You have to be steadfast and partake in critical thinking as well as be analytic. The main challenge is not about funding but mentoring. That is why our focus now is on mentoring our young start ups. “We are also providing the enabling environment for them to strive, so you discover that in the proposed finance bill 2020, there is reduction in small and medium enterprises taxes. “If we are able to implement this plan in the next five years, our start ups are going to be celebrated not only in Nigeria, but globally,” headed. Dr Pantami said Amazon became a global brand with huge profit today after several years of trials and failures, expressing confidence that Nigeria start ups which attracted the 50 million dollars investments give hope that the future would be bright for the country. In his address, the Director General of the National Information Technology Development Agency, Kashifu Abdullahi said about 10 Nigerian start ups would be showcasing their innovations in Dubai this year. He reiterated the commitment of NITDA to continue encouraging all Nigerians to invest and participate in efforts that would boost innovation and digital economy in the country. Vanguardngr.com Minister of Communications, Dr. Isa Ibrahim Pantami has challenged Nigerians to aspire higher to match the technological advancement of Dubai, the United Arab Emirate. October 6, 2019 In "News" ......… Says Domestication of ICT  Must Be Our Passion By Emmanuel Elebeke, Dubai Minister of Communications, Dr. Isa Ibrahim Pantami has challenged Nigerians to aspire higher to match the technological advancement of Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. He also said Nigerians must begin to see the need to adopt ICT… October 6, 2019 In "News" Dr Isa Pantami, Minister of Communications, has commended the creativity of young innovators in Nigeria, saying that they require mentorship to flourish. October 6, 2019 In "News"