President Muhammadu Buhari has given an assurance that Nigeria will give robust support to Republic of Niger which will hold its Presidential and National Assembly elections on Sunday. Mr Femi Adesina, the president’s spokesman, said Buhari gave the assurance on Tuesday in Abuja while receiving in audience former Vice President Namadi Sambo who heads the ECOWAS Election Mission to the West African country. The Nigerian leader applauded President Mahamadou Issoufou for not attempting to tamper with the constitution of his country and elongate his stay in power after serving for the maximum two terms. He said: “I come from Daura, few kilometers to Republic of Niger, so I should know a bit about that country. “The president is quite decent, and we are regularly in touch. He is sticking to the maximum term prescribed by the constitution of his country. “Also, we share more than 1,400 kilometers of border with that country, which can only be effectively supervised by God. I will speak with the president and offer his country our support. “We need to do all we can to help stabilise the Sahel region, which is also in our own interest,” Buhari said. In his remarks, Sambo congratulated Buhari on the successful return of the abducted schoolboys from Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, in Katsina State, and also his 78th birthday last week. He pledged that ECOWAS would ensure peaceful and fair elections in Republic of Niger, inspite of current political, legal and security issues, adding that meetings were already being held with stakeholders. Vanguard News Nigeria ---Pledges support for Republic of Niger polls By Johnbosco Agbakwuru PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday said that only God can effectively supervise the 1,400 kilometers border between Nigeria and Republic of Niger. President Buhari also pledged that Nigeria would give robust support to Niger Republic in its forthcoming presidential and… December 22, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday in Abuja stated that his administration would continue to maintain the bilateral ties between Nigeria and Niger republic in agriculture. May 28, 2016 In "News" Former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, has on Wednesday spoke against the constitutional four years term given to Presidents, noting that the term is short for a president to perform. October 2, 2019 In "News"