U.S. Attorney General William Barr on Tuesday said the Department of Justice had found no evidence of widespread voter fraud that could upturn the Nov. 3 elections. “To date, we have not seen fraud on a scale that could have affected a different outcome in the election,” The Associated Press (AP) quoted Barr as saying. This is contrary to claims by President Donald Trump, who lost to former Vice President Joe Biden, that the election was rigged against him. His camping organisation is challenging the election results in key battleground states where its lawsuits have largely been unsuccessful. In early November, the attorney general directed U.S. attorneys across the country to investigate allegations of widespread election irregularities before the results were certified by states. He said in the AP interview that federal investigators had followed up on complaints, but had not found evidence to back claims of widespread fraud. This news will certainly draw flaks from Trump, who said on Sunday that the justice department had been “missing in action” on the voter fraud probe. “You would think if you’re in the FBI or Department of Justice, this is the biggest thing you could be looking at. “Where are they? I’ve not seen anything. They just keep moving along and they go on to the next president,” the president said on Fox News. Vanguard News Nigeria U.S. Attorney General William Barr on Tuesday said the Department of Justice had found no evidence of widespread voter fraud that could upturn the Nov. 3 elections. December 2, 2020 In "Foreign" US Attorney General Bill Barr said Tuesday that the Justice Department has found no evidence of voter fraud significant enough to reverse Democrat Joe Biden's defeat of President Donald Trump in the November 3 election. "To date, we have not seen fraud on a scale that could have affected a… December 2, 2020 In "Foreign" U.S. Attorney General, William Barr, has directed federal prosecutors across the country to examine allegations of fraud in the Nov. 3 general elections. Barr’s directive is contained in a Nov. 9 memo titled, “Post-Voting Election Irregularity Inquiries” addressed to relevant divisions in the Department of Justice. It came two days… November 10, 2020 In "Foreign"