Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has compensated the families of six police officers lynched in Lagos State in the wake of the violence that trailed the recent nationwide EndSARS protests with N10 million each, totaling N60 million. The compensation was in fulfillment of the state government’s pledge made during an earlier meeting with police officers at the state police command. As part of the promise to the families, Sanwo-Olu also announced scholarship awards to the children of the deceased officers up to the university level. Sanwo-Olu presented cheques to the wives and children of the slain officers at the 14th Town Hall meeting on security, held at Civic Centre, Victoria Island on Thursday. The yearly event with the theme: “Lagos Security: Resilience in the Face Adversity”, was organised by the Lagos State Security Trust Fund, LSSTF. The late police officers are: Yaro Edward, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Inspector Ayodeji Erinfolami, Inspector Aderibigbe Adegbenro, Inspector Samsom Ehibor, Sergeant Bejide Abiodun and Inspector Igoche Cornelius. Sanwo-Olu described the slain officers as “heroes”, saying the deceased sacrificed their lives to secure lives and properties in the State. He said the compensation was the state government’s modest reward for their gallantry, stressing that the gesture would help the families to heal from the loss. According to the governor, “Some of our gallant police officers paid the supreme price for our security and safety during the recent EndSARS protests. These are the officers deployed to protect our families from hoodlums but they were lynched in the violence. Today, I am happy to announce and present N10 million compensation through LSSTF to each family of the officers. All their children have also be placed on scholarship up to university level, courtesy of the State Government.” Sanwo-Olu, at the event also received the report of security activities across the state in the last 12 months from Commissioner of Police, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu, expressing his delight at the downward trend observed in sophisticated crimes, such as kidnapping and armed robbery, in the last one year. As Lagos embarks on rebuild effort, Sanwo-Olu reiterated that security would remain a top priority for his Government. He noted that Lagos was on the verge of bridging technological and logistical gap in its security architecture before the violence that trailed EndSARS protest erupted. The coordinated arson of the past weeks, the governor said, had necessitated the need to tighten security across the state, giving assurance that his administration would invest more in intelligence-led policing and improve operational capacity and welfare of personnel serving in Lagos. He said: “We must sustain the steady progress Lagos has recorded in security of lives and businesses. The issue of security is a shared mission. The more we are able to engage the citizens, the better we will become at nipping crimes in the bud. Our Government will continue to proactively engage all stakeholders as part of ongoing exercise to address all security concerns. “We have taken proactive measure of making the necessary budgetary provision for security. We will be committing N37.8 billion to Public Order and Safety in 2021 because we fully understand the correlation between development and security. “We will stop at nothing to flush out criminal elements whose sole aim is to foment chaos and perpetrate crimes. Lagos will offer no hiding place for bandits and criminals.” Sanwo-Olu disclosed that the Government would be committing funds to social protection to address contributing factors to crimes, including substance abuse, unemployment and poor education. He said the State remained focused on addressing issues that led to recent youth agitations, adding that programmes would be rolled out to cultivate young people’s trust and get them to embrace participatory governance. Odumosu, in his extensive report, said his men rose to the occasion of effectively combating crimes in Lagos because of constant logistics supplies from the State government. Giving the breakdown of crimes recorded in Lagos from October 2019 to last September, Odumosu said the Command foiled 273 cases of armed robbery, arresting 1,181 robbers in operations. He said 27 robbers were killed in the encounter during the period. The police boss said the state recorded a sharp decline in kidnapping in the past year, an effort he linked to improved intelligence-driven operations. He, however, said cases of cultism and drug abuse were on the rise, promising to beam focus to the issues. Executive Secretary, LSSTF, Dr. AbdulRazaq Balogun, observed that there was a decline in donations to the Funds in the current year, a factor he linked to the outbreak of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and establishment of similar trust funds agencies by other States. He said LSSTF had provided 90 patrol vehicles and six units of outboard engine boats for security operations across the State in addition to logistics support provided for the personnel. Vanguardngr.com By Adeniyi Femi It is often said that the hallmark of maturity in any leader is the ability to take responsibility for whatever wrong that is perceived by the people. This much was gracefully demonstrated by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in his handling of the EndSARS protests fall-out within Lagos State.… November 30, 2020 In "Viewpoint" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Aftermath of destruction of lives and property, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Wednesday said the state government will set up Rebuild Lagos Trust Fund as he accepted full responsibility on what happened in the state during the EndSARS protests. Sanwo-Olu made the statement when he visited… October 28, 2020 In "News" Following the continuing EndSARS protest in Lagos, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, was in Abuja on Tuesday to meet with President Muhammadu Buhari and the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, on the development. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, presented the… October 14, 2020 In "SARS Update"