Governor Yahaya Bello, a focused leader, has the best security architecture in Nigeria, qualified for National assignment, says Osun state CNPP Chairman. The Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) Osun State chapter has commended His Excellency Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State for his landmark achievements and his untiring efforts in developing the Confluence State especially his approach to security issues which our biggest national challenge. The Chairman of the umbrella body of all political parties in Osun state who is also the elected Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) Chairman in Osun State told journalists in Lokoja during his visit. He stated that his visit has afforded him the opportunity to see tremendous improvements in the state, most especially in the area of security, health and agriculture. His words, “With over 200 patrol utility vehicles equipped with sophisticated gadgets and over 500 motorcycles for the use of OPERATION TOTAL FREEDOM to stamp out criminality, the issue of kidnapping, armed banditry and cultism has reduced tremendously, and now Kogi people can sleep with their two eyes closed. “His Kogi state Health Care plus, The Confluence Advanced Medical Diagnostic Centre ( CAMDIC) and massive renovation of health facilities lay credence to the claim that he has actually brought turnaround to this sector. “The agricultural sector has also witness appreciable development as I can see improved farming activities going on in the state and the Governor distributing one hundred tractors for the rural agricultural programme. With my short stay in Kogi state, I can sincerely say that he has performed. He is therefore qualified for another national assignment after his current term in office as the Kogi Governor. As a young and dynamic Governor, Nigeria will need his services after his assignment in Kogi state.” Vanguard News Nigeria Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi has called on people of the state to forget political and ideological differences, affiliations and leanings to join hands with his administration to ensure good governance. January 27, 2020 In "Politics" The call by some APC stakeholders from Kogi State to probe the state governor over anti-party activities seems to have deepen the party crisis as the state Deputy Woman Leader, Mrs Deborah Isiguizo berated Senator Dino Melaye and the State Chairman of the party, Haddy Ametou, for constituting the probe… June 18, 2016 In "News" The re-elected Governor of Kogi, Yahaya Bello, has expressed his readiness and that of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) to meet any of his opponents in court over the result of the Nov. 16 Kogi governorship election. The governor stated this when he fielded questions from State House… November 21, 2019 In "News"