Tiv Youth Council Worldwide, a pressure group has faulted Bishop Matthew Kukah’s call for a military coup against President Muhammadu Buhari’s government, urging security agencies to question him over the statement. Mr. Mike Msuaan, President and Convener of the group said this in a statement in Lagos on Monday. He expressed reservation over Kukah’s incitement of the south against the north and his open call for insurrection and lawlessness in the country. According to Msuaan, such calls are treasonable and must be thoroughly investigated. “The present administration met a very terrible security situation in the country which included the bombing of Churches and Mosques, Schools and other public infrastructure.
“The security has improved to a level that bombings have stopped and the insurgents have been thrashed to cowardly attacks on soft spots. “We wonder why the Bishop has not found it honourable enough to commend the efforts of the President in the rescue of some of the Chibok girls and all the Kankara boys recently rescued from the hands of the insurgents,” he said. Msuaan urged security agencies to place kukah under security watch as well as investigate his activities. He also advised him to desist from playing politics on the pulpit. “Kukah is working for the interest of enemies of the country and sowing the seeds of division at a time Nigerians across regional, ethnic and religious divides are working and praying for peace to reign in the country,” he said. Msuaan commended security agencies for their commitment towards ending the insurgency, banditry other security threats in the country. He urged them not to be discouraged but to remain resolute and determined in their quest to rid the country of insurgency and other security threats. Vanguard News Nigeria The Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) has described Bishop Mathew Hassan Kukah's recent statement as unguarded and open incitement to military coup and insurrection against the democratically elected government of Muhammadu Buhari. In a statement signed by its National President, Alhaji Yerima Shettima on Monday, the group condemned "Kukah's use… December 28, 2020 In "News" The Tiv Youth Council Worldwide (TYWC) says the recent visit by the Benue Traditional Council led by Prof. James Ayatse (Tor Tiv V) to congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari, after election Tribunal victory was a sign of good things to come. October 14, 2019 In "News" The Northern Christians Forum of Nigeria (NCFN) has distanced itself from statements credited to Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah of the Catholic Diocese of Sokoto criticizing President Muhammadu Buhari's administration. The group, in a statement signed by its President, Rev. Dr. Josiah Nabut, on Sunday in Barnawa, Kaduna State warned Kukah to avoid… December 26, 2020 In "News"