Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom has dragged a Makurdi based lawyer, Mr Ocha Ulegede to court for alleged false, malicious and libellous publication. Governor Ortom in the suit averred that Mr Ulegede allegedly assassinated his character and damaged his reputation in a social publication he forwarded to the WhatsApp group of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, Makurdi Branch on Wednesday, December 9, 2020. According to him, in the forwarded post, Mr Ulegede alleged that during a stakeholder meeting between the Benue State government and organized labour held on Wednesday, December 9, 2020, Governor Ortom lamented about the frequency of garnishee proceedings against his administration and referred to him(Ulegede) as one of the greedy lawyers and threatened to face such lawyers headlong. Mr Ulegede was also alleged to have stated in the post that Governor Ortom castigated the person of Justice Maurice Ikpambese of the Benue State High Court Makurdi for granting garnishee orders and has instructed the Attorney General of Benue State to petition the Judge. When the case came up for mention, counsel to Governor Ortom, Samuel Irabor, observed that the defendant, Mr Ulegede was not in court, he made an oral application for the trial Magistrate to issue a bench warrant for his arrest. Counsel to Mr Ulegede, Augustine Sule, however, objected to the application, submitting that his client needed 48-hours to appear in court, after service, as required by law. The trial Magistrate, Vincent Kor ruled against issuing a bench warrant since the time of service on Ulegede and mention of the case was not up to 48-hours. He adjourned the suit to January 29, 2021, to hear the preliminary objections against the suit. Vanguard News Nigeria By Peter Duru, Makurdi Governor Samuel Ortom on Wednesday expressed his willingness to forgive the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole in the N10billion libel suit he instituted against the former Edo state governor. The Governor Ortom slammed the suit on Oshiomhole after he,… October 15, 2020 In "News" THE die is cast and the race for the Benue State Government House has kick_started in full blast, same for other positions that are up for grasp by politicians who sailed through their various party primaries. But the major attraction remains the battle for the position of governor of the… February 1, 2011 In "Politics" Alhaji Abubakar Tsav, the Commissioner in charge of the Public Complaints Commission (PCC) in Benue, says he will not retract his alleged damaging comments about Gov. Samuel Ortom as requested by the Tiv Traditional Council. Tsav told  Newsmen on Wednesday in Makurdi that he stood by his letter where he… August 2, 2017 In "News"