The House of Representatives may today reach a resolution to invite President Muhammadu Buhari to give explanations on the true security situation of the country. This is the key prayer of a motion that’s underway on the floor at Tuesday plenary. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila made the announcement while making his remarks on the Borno killings. The motion, sponsored by 11 lawmakers most of whom are from Borno State is coming on the heels of the massacre of over 43 rice farmers in Zabarmari village, Jere Local Government near Maiduguri, in Borno State over the week by suspected Boko Haram insurgents. The killing which attracted widespread condemnations has however resumed debate on the manner of security machinery that’s currently in place in Nigeria. Though the government has consistently mouthed a decimation and technical defeat of the insurgents, contemporary fatalities and massacres have benumbed the claim. The House has for the umpteenth time called for the sack of the Service Chiefs whose tenures have since elapsed but President Buhari whose prerogative it is to relieve them of their appointments preferred otherwise. Gbajabiamila in his remarks, however, said that “Now, is the time to ask difficult questions. We will consider intervention for the people of Zarbamari attacks”. The House is set for the debate. Details later… Vanguard News Nigeria …10 women still missing, says Amnesty International …Killing of farmers insane, says Buhari …Massacre, most violent direct attack against civilians in 2020 — UN …Redouble your efforts to end violent crimes in Nigeria, Lawan tells security agencies …PDP condemns killings, tasks Buhari on security …Ganduje’s aide condemns killings, says 24hrs… November 30, 2020 In "News" Initial figures of casualty put the deaths at 44 but, as more details emerged, it is now confirmed that 118 soldiers and officers were killed together with their Commanding Officer, Lt Col. Ibrahim Sakaba, while about 150 more soldiers and officers are still missing December 2, 2018 In "News" PRESIDENT of the  Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, said yesterday that Boko Haram has now become a big industry and no longer the religious sect it claimed to be. June 12, 2020 In "News"