The President of the Living Faith Church Worldwide, Bishop David Oyedepo, has said he stopped receiving salary from the Church many years ago, warning that the people saying men of god are stealing from the Church were at risk of God’s wrath. Bishop Oyedepo, who preached at the “Encounter Night” at ongoing Shiloh 2020, said: “The blessings of the Lord maketh rich and add no sorrow with. There is a difference between the blessings of the Lord and the blessings of the effort of man. “Those saying these people are stealing will just rain curse of the Lord on themselves. Prosperity is not on what you are given, but in what you give.” Oyedepo preached on ‘Unveiling the Turnaround Wonders of the Altar of Sacrifice’, stating that his home is like a hotel. “I have always had people living with me even when I was living in one room apartment. “The last time I counted I had about 22 people working for me. I didn’t bring a dime into ministry. God is too big to be helped. “Men are not the builders of Churches, God said he will build his church and the gates of hell will not prevail. “I still sleep like a baby. I never asked God to enrich me, I only suçceeded in passing the test of sacrifice. Every child of God that works genuinely in the convenant have a great future. “Many years ago, I told God if you ever bless me, I will build churches,” Oyedepo added. Vanguard News Nigeria Bishop David Oyedepo, the President of Living Faith Church Worldwide, has urged Christians to earnestly pray for God’s choices to emerge at all levels of leadership in the forthcoming elections. March 7, 2015 In "News" Bishop David Oyedepo, the Founder and Presideng Bishop, Living Faith Church Worldwide, on Saturday predicted that nothing would disturb the peace of Nigeria and its story would change for the better in the year 2019. December 8, 2018 In "News" Dr David Oyedepo, the Bishop of the Living Faith Church worldwide, has appealed to those criticising the school fees charged by Covenant University to desist to avoid incurring the wrath of God. November 5, 2016 In "News"