Widow of one of the six slain policemen who received compensation from Lagos State Government says the gesture has not only wiped off the family’s tears, it has also brightened their hope to attain the future their slain breadwinner had envisioned. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had, on Thursday, presented a cheque of N10 million each to families of the six police officers killed in Lagos in the violence that followed the recent #ENDSARS protests. Sanwo Olu  explained that the compensation was the state government’s modest reward for their gallantry, pointing out that the gesture would help the families to heal from the loss, describing the slain officers as “heroes” who sacrificed their lives to secure lives and properties in the state. The governor, while presenting the cheques, said it was in fulfilment of his administration’s pledge made at an earlier meeting with police officers. He also announced scholarship awards to the children of the deceased officers up to the university level. Among those given the cash benefits were the widows of the late ASP Yaro Edwards who, until his death, was attached to Denton Police Division; the late Inspector Adegbenro Aderibigbe who, until his death, was attached to Meiran Police Station; the late Inspector Ayodeji Erinfolami attached to the anti-kidnapping unit, the late Inspector Samson Ehibo attached to Ilasamaja Police Station and Sergeant Abiodun Bejide of the Operation Department. Widow of the late Inspector Adegbenro Aderibigbe, who spoke to Sunday Vanguard at the Civic Centre venue of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF) of the 14th Town Hall meeting on security where the cheques were presented, said the governor’s gesture  had not only wiped off their tears, but had also brightened their hope to attain the future their slain breadwinners, had envisioned. Mrs. Adegbenro said, “My family is happy about it. It was a voluntary donation, so I wasn’t expecting it. We are happy. My children  are very happy. One of them is in secondary school, while the two others are in primary school. I thank the governor for what he has done for us”. Vanguardngr.com ...Earmarks N37.8 Bn to public order and safety in 2021 ...Kidnapping cases reduce in Lagos, CP By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has compensated the families of six police officers lynched in Lagos State in the wake of the violence that trailed the recent nationwide EndSARS protests… December 3, 2020 In "News" The Lagos State Government has presented a cheque of N5 million to the family of late Moshood Ayeni, who was a Kick Against Indiscipline (KAI) official. June 29, 2020 In "News" By Adeniyi Femi It is often said that the hallmark of maturity in any leader is the ability to take responsibility for whatever wrong that is perceived by the people. This much was gracefully demonstrated by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in his handling of the EndSARS protests fall-out within Lagos State.… November 30, 2020 In "Viewpoint"