The former Commissioner for Agriculture and Cooperatives in Lagos State, Chief Enock Kolapomoye Olorunfunwa (EKO) Ajiboso, is dead. Ajiboso, 68-year-old, was also a former Chairman of Agege Local Government, Chief Enoch Kolapomoye Ajiboso, reportedly died in the early hours on Sunday, December 20, 2020 in his hometown, Inisa, in Odo Otin Local Government Area of Osun State. As of the time of this report, neither the cause of death could not be ascertained nor confirmed by any family member. However, a close associate to Ajiboso who preferred to be anonymous, confirmed the death. The deceased until his death was the Eesa of Inisa land, the highest traditional stool in the town, second only to the traditional ruler of the town. Ajiboso, a retired banker before his foray into politics, was two term chairman of Agege Local Government, the first man to be elected twice as Chairman of Agege Local Government. He was the Chairman of Local Government Chairmen in the state and the National Treasurer of the national body. He was subsequently, Commissioner for Agriculture and Cooperatives in the first term of the administration of Babatunde Raji Fashola. He handled various tasks in the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, in Lagos. Recall that before his death Ajiboso had lost his mother, late Iyaafin Eunice Mofoluwake Ajiboso, who also died recently at the his country home in Inisa in Odo Otin Local Government Area of Osun State in December 4, 2015, at a ripe age. In his lifetime, Ajiboso had said that improving people’s life, was the hallmark of his aspiration. He hinged his political aspiration on the need to always improve the lives of the people while speaking on Thursday, October 30, 2014, during the flag off of his desire to run for the Lagos West Senatorial District. Vanguard News Nigeria Ahead of All Progressives Congress, APC, primaries in Lagos, former Commissioner for Agriculture and Cooperatives, and Lagos West senatorial district aspirant, Mr. Enoch Ajiboso, has said that the Senate was not meant for amateurs, but for experienced politicians who understood the act of lawmaking. November 19, 2014 In "News" Governor Babatubde Fashola of Lagos State has approved N400 million for the construction of two standard abattoirs which are expected to be ready within 12 months July 16, 2010 In "News" The Lagos State government has received $4.2 million, about N630 million, grants from a World Bank-assisted programme, under the National Fadama Development Project, NFDP, to boost food production for the period of five years. Commissioner for Agriculture and Cooperatives, Chief. Enock Ajiboso, disclosed this yesterday at media briefing on the… March 31, 2010 In "News"