Britain International Trade Secretary Liz Truss announced that Britain on Thursday signed a free trade deal with Singapore covering 17.6bn dollars. “Today I signed a deal with Singapore covering 17.6bn [pounds sterling] of trade – the 2nd biggest agreement we’ve signed in #AsiaPacific,’’ Truss wrote on Twitter. A photo showed Truss alongside Singapore’s trade minister Chan Chun Sing. The agreement came as British and EU negotiators begin a final push to salvage chances of a post-Brexit trade deal. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen held crunch Brexit talks in Brussels on Wednesday. They had decided on Sunday as a deadline for a decision over their severely jammed trade talks. In a statement sent to reporters minutes after Johnson was pictured leaving the EU Commission’s headquarters in Brussels, a senior Number 10 source said the pair had a “frank discussion” but significant obstacles in the negotiations remained. “Very large gaps remain between the two sides and it is still unclear whether these can be bridged,’’ the source said. (dpa/NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria Britain and Canada have signed a preliminary trade agreement to ensure the continuity of their economic relations after the end of the Brexit transition phase in six weeks. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau sealed the agreement on Saturday in a video call, the Department… November 22, 2020 In "Foreign" Senior EU and British officials will meet urgently next week on the Brexit withdrawal agreement, which has been threatened by London's attempt to override parts of the treaty, Brussels said Tuesday. "But please, dear friends in London: Stop the games. Time is running out," Germany's European affairs minister Michael Roth… September 22, 2020 In "Foreign" British Prime Minister Theresa May called Friday for a wide-ranging free trade deal with the EU after Brexit, but admitted it was time to face the "hard facts" about the economic consequences of leaving the bloc. March 2, 2018 In "News"