US President-elect Joe Biden has expressed full confidence in his son Hunter, a frequent target of Republican attacks, after it was revealed last week that he was under a federal tax investigation. During his unsuccessful re-election campaign, President Donald Trump launched repeated accusations against Hunter and said the Bidens were a “corrupt” family and a “criminal enterprise.” “We have great confidence in our son,” Biden said, sitting next to his wife Jill, in an interview on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert,” which aired Thursday on CBS. “I am not concerned about any accusations that have been made against him. It used to get to me. I think it’s kind of foul play but… as long as he’s good, we’re good,” he said in his first full remarks on the issue since the tax probe became public. Trump and his allies have regularly assailed Hunter for his business dealings in Ukraine and China. From 2014 to 2019, while his father was vice president, Hunter, a lawyer and lobbyist, served on the board of Burisma, a Ukrainian gas company. Trump has accused Biden of seeking the removal of Ukraine’s top prosecutor to protect Burisma — and his son — from a corruption investigation. Hunter, 50, now an artist based in Los Angeles, has admitted to displaying “poor judgment” in some of his business dealings, but denied any wrongdoing. Colbert asked Biden if there was anything he could “sincerely” thank Trump for accomplishing during his time in the White House. After a short pause, Biden responded: “There are some things… Getting the vaccine moving has been positive, but by and large, he has been a president who’s decided that the way he succeeds is by dividing us.” Biden also said he believes by next Christmas, life in the US will be “awfully close” to normal, “if not there.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Hunter Biden, the son of US President-elect Joe Biden and a frequent target of Republican attacks, said Wednesday he was under federal investigation about his taxes. The revelation about the probe included no details, but it promises to rekindle Republican rage about the Biden family, including Hunter Biden's business dealings… December 10, 2020 In "Foreign" Hunter Biden, the son of President-elect Joe Biden, announced he is facing a federal probe into his taxes, without elaborating further, but insisting he has done nothing wrong. The younger Biden’s business dealings abroad provided fodder for the Trump campaign this year. “I learned yesterday for the first time that… December 10, 2020 In "News" United States (US) President Donald Trump and challenger Joe Biden traded accusations of graft and clashed on the Covid-19 pandemic Thursday but without landing a knockout blow 12 days before the election in a final debate that many saw as Trump's last big chance to change the narrative. Perhaps the… October 22, 2020 In "Foreign"