Samuel Aruwan ,Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs in Kaduna State, has said that  seven persons were killed in counter-killings in the state at the weekend. Consequently, Governor El-Rufai, according to him, was worried over renewed killings and counter-killings in Southern Kaduna. “The military under the auspices of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) and the police have informed the Kaduna State Government of counter-attacks on some herder settlements in Kauru and Lere local government areas,”Aruwan said. “According to the operational feedback from the security agencies, the attacks were carried out by aggrieved youths following the killing of seven persons on Thursday night in Gora Gan, Zangon Kataf local government. “The security agencies reported that seven herders were killed in  counter-killings in Ungwan Idi and Kasheku villages of Kauru local government while two herders were injured at Ningi village of Lere local government. “The seven herders killed at Ungwan Idi and Kasheku villages in Kauru local government are as follows: Mustapha Haruna (one year) , Ya’u Kada (one year) ,Sa’idu Abdullahi (one year), Zainab Zakari (one year),Sadiya Abdullahi (five years),Aisha Abdullahi (one year) and one unidentified woman burnt beyond recognition .” “Five persons are still missing and troops are searching for them in the general area. Six huts were burnt in the attack. “Aisha Mohammed (20 years) and Sadiya Abdullahi (25 years) who were wounded in the Kauru LGA reprisal attack are receiving medical attention at Ungwan Idi Clinic. “At Ningi village of Lere local government area, two herders were injured and rushed to General Hospital, Saminaka, in the same local government. They are  Bingel Odi (31 years) ,Isa Joda (Seven years). *Governor Nasir El-Rufai, who condemned the renewed counter-killings, sent condolences to the families that lost their loved and wished those recuperating speedy recovery. “He described the renewed killing and counter killing of innocent citizens of Atyap and Fulani ethnicity as unfortunate. He   decried the resort to violence, noting that it is not a solution to grievances and disputes, but a tragic way to escalate matters and drag people into more pains and misery. “The governor directed the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) to provide relief materials to the affected families with immediate effect.” Vanguard News Nigeria ***woman burnt beyond recognition ***El-Rufai  condemns renewed killings By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs in Kaduna State, on Saturday said nine persons lost their lives in a counter killing in Southern Kaduna. Aruwan also noted that the state's Governor, Nasiru El-Rufai, was worried… December 19, 2020 In "Metro" By Ibrahim Hassan No fewer than seven persons have been killed in fresh attacks in Jemaa Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The incident occurred in the early hours of yesterday at Ungwan Bido village where some residents were killed and four injured. Also, two children are still missing. The… November 30, 2020 In "News" …Injure 4, 2 children missing El-Rufa'i orders investigation of killing and counter killing By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Security agencies in Kaduna state have reported that Ungwan Bido village in Southern Kaduna was attacked Sunday 29th November 2020, where some local residents were killed and four injured. Two children were declared missing.… November 29, 2020 In "News"