Patrick Vieira has been sacked as coach of Nice, paying the price for five consecutive defeats, the French Ligue 1 club announced on Friday. The final straw for the former Arsenal player and France 1998 World Cup winner was Thursday’s 3-2 defeat at home to Bayer Leverkusen, which confirmed their elimination from the Europa League. He has been replaced by his assistant, Adrien Ursea. “In a meeting after last night’s match, the Nice board informed Patrick Vieira of its decision to put an end to their collaboration,” the club said in a statement. “Patrick Vieira put all his heart and professionalism into his service for OGC Nice over the last two and a half years.” Appointed in 2018, Vieira had been under growing pressure after last week’s shock home defeat by struggling Dijon left the ambitious Cote d’Azur club in the bottom half of Ligue 1. Nice had been hoping to challenge towards the top of the table this season following considerable investment from the club’s British owners Ineos. After Thursday’s defeat, Vieira admitted he was “weakened as any coach who has lost five consecutive games is”. “We are as disappointed as the supporters,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria Patrick Vieira has strongly suggested that he would be interested if Arsenal were to approach him over their vacant managerial post. The Gunners have been without a boss for over a week, having sacked Unai Emery following a poor sequence of results that has led to them dropping to 10th… December 8, 2019 In "Sports" Arsenal technical director Edu has recommended former team-mate, Patrick Vieira, as the new Arsenal boss but still has to convince the owners he is the right man, according to journalist Duncan Castles. Vieira, who made 279 Premier League appearances for the Gunners, is one of many managers linked with the… December 13, 2019 In "Sports" As Ligue 1 prepares to kick off in the glow of France's summer triumph, Nice will be one of the clubs that can boast a World Cup winner, but theirs is of an older vintage. July 31, 2018 In "Sports"