A philanthropist and youth ambassador Bright  Esere-Obarogie, has appealed to the three tiers of government to fashion out means of reaching Nigerians who are in need with succour. Esere-Obarogie made the appeal when he presented palliative to several inhabitants of Iguogun, Iguotakpa and Okoduwa communities in Ovia South West Local Government Area of Edo.  He said that the appeal became necessary because many poor Nigerians were left out of the several palliative programme initiated by the government boh tiers of government in the country. According to him, “This is not only condemnable but regrettable, that the rich have continually taken advantage of the poor in the country. “We must have to be our brothers keeper and learn how to live for others if we are to have a better and safer society.” The Ambassador donated about a thousand bags of rice to the people to enable them have a joyous Christmas celebration. Esere-Obarogie who personally supervised the distribution of the food item, said that it was his own way of giving back to the people. While noting that the year 2020 had been a trying one for Nigerians in particular and the world in general, he urged other well meaning individuals, in the spirit of the season, to assist to add meaning to the lives of others.  As the world continues to make frantic efforts to fight and end the dreaded new COVID-19 currently ravaging the globe, the Chairman of Ibila Empire, Chief Lawrence Okohwake Emareyo has successfully donated palliatives to poor and needy Nigerians in Ughelli, Delta state April 27, 2020 In "News" Palliatives distribution in Sokoto delayed at minister’s request — Tambuwal Sokoto gov’s claim untrue, says source in Humanitarian Ministry No reason to hoard palliatives—Ondo govt CACOVID explains delay in distribution of palliatives ICPC to investigate alleged hoarding of palliatives By Dapo Akinrefon, Olasunkanmi Akoni & Joseph Erunke The controversy surrounding… October 28, 2020 In "News" Following the reported index cases of the ravaging coronavirus, COVID-19, in Lagos and Ogun states which has now crept into virtually all the states of the federation, President Muhammadu Buhari took the lead by announcing a lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and Federal Capital Territory as part of measures to curtail… April 16, 2020 In "News"