A Magistrate Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State on Monday remanded a leader of the State #EndSARS movement, Emmanuel Adebisi over alleged impersonation. Adebisi, who was popularly referred to as Captain during the EndSARS protest was invited by the Department of State Security to explain his role in the protest of December 7, where he led the call for the suspension of the State Panel of Inquiry. He was arraigned before Magistrate F. Omisade on four counts bordering on felony, impersonation, dressing in military outfits, and illegal possession of military outfits. DSS Prosecutor, Ben Nweke, told the court that Adebisi on June 19, 2020, allegedly made a false attestation in a document titled “Memorandum of Understanding”, with reference number PCC/OS/2020/6/2/7 by witnessing and signing it as “Captain Adebisi Emmanuel”. The defendant, according to the Prosecutor, allegedly paraded himself as captain Adebisi Emmanuel Oluwaseun to deceive officers of Osun State Public Complaint Commissions (Nigeria Ombudsman). The prosecutor further accused Adebisi of dressing and appearing in the garb of the armed forces of Nigeria and was found possessing accouterments of the armed forces at his residence located at the Ile-Idande Area, Ayekale Osogbo, on December 9, 2020. He added that the alleged offence contravened Sections 467, 484, 109 and 428 (d) of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol.2, Law of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002. However, Adebisi pleaded not guilty to the four counts pressed against him. Defence Counsel, Barrister A.C Olaniyi, in his oral application urged the court to admit the defendant to bail in the most liberal terms. Olaniyi assured the court that the defendant would not jump bail if granted, saying he would provide credible surety to show his readiness to face trial. In his ruling, Mr. Omisade declined the oral bail application and requested a formal application before adjourning the matter till December 21, 2020, for ruling on bail. Vanguard News Nigeria By Shina Abubakar A member of the Osun State #EndSARS movement, Emmanuel Adebisi, popularly referred to as captain has been detained by the operatives of Department of State Security at the command office in Osogbo. This is as a source confided in the medium that he was detained for allegedly… December 10, 2020 In "News" …Policemen, soldiers storm Lekki toll plaza …Protesters heed Police warning in Lagos, stay off protest venues …Lagos Police debunk viral video …Tension as #EndSARS protests hold in Abuja …Protesters storm streets in Osogbo, demand disbandment of brutality panel …Protesters’ll  be dealt with decisively in C-River, CP warns, says memories of… December 8, 2020 In "News" https://youtu.be/KTiDKCkmFG4 By Shina Abubakar Some members of the #EndSARS movement in Osun State, on Monday, thronged streets of the state capital demanding the disbandment of the State Panel of Inquiry against police brutality. The group led by Emmanuel Adebisi protested through Olaiya junction to Ogo-Oluwa area and terminated at… December 7, 2020 In "News"