No fewer than 3,000 owners of Small and Medium Scale Businesses in Kebbi State would receive Federal Government’s post COVID-19 grants in order to enhance their business activities, says Abubakar Malami (SAN), Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. A statement by Dr Umar Gwandu, his Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations, issued on Monday, in Birnin-Kebbi, quoted Malami as saying this at the opening ceremony for the disbursement of N2 billion loan facilities to 549 entrepreneurs in the state, under the Federal Government’s Agri-business Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Scheme (AGSMEIS). He said that the federal government had noted that many small and medium scale business owners suffered losses due to the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, hence, the need to intervene with grants and soft loans to boost their businesses and enhance their productivity. “Each of the entrepreneurs will receive an amount ranging from one million to five million”, under the scheme, he said. He said that to increase food production and enhance job creation in Kebbi State, Khadimiyya for Justice and Development Initiatives (KDI), a Non-Governmental Organisation, had facilitated access to soft loans for more than 2,000 cassava farmers and 1,900 rice farmers under the Federal Government’s Anchor Borrowers Programme. According to the minister, 200 wheelchairs would be distributed to People Living with Disability (PWDs) in Birnin-Kebbi during the first week of January 2021. He expressed appreciation that some social development projects already executed, including Widows and Vulnerable Empowerment Scheme under which goats were distributed free as support to rural women, to enhance the business of animal rearing for income, had started yielding positive results. “As a measure to bring an end to the acute shortage of water, as well as improve healthcare and hygiene, hundreds of boreholes were dug for rural communities through the KDI,’’ he added. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, says the Federal Government is committed to taking one hundred million Nigerians out of abject poverty. Malami said this in a statement issued by Dr Umar Gwandu, Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations, Office of the Minister… March 10, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government on Monday empowered 1,500 women and youths in Kebbi with a N15 million micro credit to boost their businesses. March 10, 2020 In "News" By Usman Bahiru The first demonstration and quality of a law officer is the solemn duty of putting country first. As a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Nigeria’s Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, has demonstrated overtime uncommon courage in the discharge of his… July 22, 2020 In "News"