All charges levelled against Nigerian singers Omah Lay and Tems in Uganda have reportedly been dropped and the duo will return to Nigeria later today. Following the public outcry from Nigerians and diplomatic intervention of the Nigerian government,  a Chief Magistrate Court in Uganda today December 15th, dropped the charges against the music artistes. The court order approving this was also shared on social media and it shows that the two can be released and returned home to their country. The duo were arrested on Sunday, December 13th, for making an appearance at a concert, while the country is on lockdown. Omah Lay and Tems were remanded in different prisons till Wednesday, December 16th, following their arraignment before the Makindye Division court in Kampala on Monday. However, all charges against them have now been dropped and the Chief Magistrate Court has issued a release order. Nigerian music stars Peter Okoye and Mr. Eazi have also taken to Twitter to confirm the release. “Confirm! @Omah_Lay and @temsbaby have been released! It is well guys! ” Peter Okoye wrote. “Pleased to hear that My brothers and sisters are to be released & the case is resolved, Big love to everyone who worked on this & Special thanks to @adoniaayebare & The Government of Uganda, Chief Of Justice In Uganda . African relations must keep fostering strong!” Mr.Eazi tweeted. Vanguard News Nigeria By Juliet Ebirim Nigerian singers Stanley Omah Didia aka Omah Lay and Temilade Openiyi popularly known as Tems, have reportedly been remanded in prison in Uganda, until Wednesday,16th of December when they would be expected to appear before a Court. The Ugandan Police made this known today via its official… December 14, 2020 In "Entertainment" mah Lay By Juliet Ebirim Wizkid, Davido, Burna Boy, Don Jazzy Tiwa Savage, and several Nigerian music stars have taken to social media to express their anger over the arrest of Nigerian singers, Stanley Omah Didia aka Omah Lay and Temilade Openiyi professionally known as Tems, in Uganda shortly after… December 15, 2020 In "Entertainment" By Benjamin Njoku Nigerian singers, Stanley Omah Didia a.k.a Omah Lay and Temilade Openiyi better known as Tems, who are currently being detained in Uganda, will be on their way back to the country soon, Peter Okoye of the defunct Psquare musical group has revealed. Omah Lay and Tems were… December 15, 2020 In "Entertainment"