The President of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, Prof. Innocent Ujah on Thursday described, the health sector in Nigeria as being in turmoil, with numerous challenges affecting training and retraining of health professional. He also said that the challenges facing the Nigerian health sector are multi-diamentional, adding that they include, poor infrastructural, inadequate equipment, inadequate manpower and the competing demands for the review of the training curriculum for Doctors. Prof. Ujah disclosed this in an address he presented during the Nigerian Medical Association Awka 2020 National Executive Council NEC, meeting held at Oma Event Center Awka. The NMA President in NEC meeting with the theme “Medical doctors and leadership in the society: Time for a paradigm shift in medical training and a sub theme : Managing mental health in COVID-19 depressed economy, lamented that the persistent despair in the health system underscores the need for a paradigm shift in the training of not only medical doctors, but all healthcare professionals in the country as that will contribute to better health care service delivery to all Nigerians. Describing medical professionalism as a set of values, behaviours and relationships that underpins the trust the public has in doctors, remains a key focal point for NMA, adding that they will continue to advocate for members of to be above board in their practice so as to enhance the quality of health care and reduce quackery. “We frown at any Medical and Dental practitioner who act in a way that will bring our great profession into public opprobrium. NMA will continue to encourage our members to adopt the patient centered approach in clinical practice” He regretted that 2020 as full of challenges and contradictions adding that NMA lost about 16 doctors to COVID-19, but gave glory to God for bringing the surviving doctors to the end of the year. “I must thank the doctors for their untiring efforts and firmness to contain the global health emergency, the Coronavirus Disease, COVID-19, Pandemic in Nigeria. “We are all witnesses to the violent turn of events that followed the #EndSARS protest staged largely by Nigerian youths across the country which affected the smooth continuation of 2020 Physicians Week. “As if that was most enough, the subsequent destruction of hospital equipment and looting of hospital supplies by hoodlums who hijacked the protest is a sour taste to what was considered to be very well organized and peaceful protest. “However despite all these, and in addition to working in less than optimal conditions, characterized by inadequate consumables and equipment, shortage of manpower, paltry hazard allowance and near absence of regular and structured capacity development programmes, you have all continued to discharge your duties with diligence and unprecedented commitment. “I appreciate your support, dedication and sacrifice, and for keeping to the Oath of service and ethics as custodians of the health of our people. We must appreciate God for providing Nigeria with highly committed and dedicated quality medical professionals.” Governor of Anambra State Chief Willie Obiano who was represented by his deputy Dr Nkem Okeke called on NMA to take issue of getting and distribution of vaccines for COVID-19 and other diseases very seriously. In his welcome address, the Chairman of the Local Organizing Committee, and Chairman of NMA, Anambra State, Dr Jide Onyekwelu, said health care delivery in Nigeria is MIT adequate, and COVID-19 pandemic exposed the inadequacy even more. Dr Onyekwelu queried if the inadequacy of Nigeria health care delivery is associated with the doctors, the system or the leadership, and how to put a halt to the ugly situation and turn things around, and the capacity to cope with the mentally with the stress of the situation, saying that the NEC meeting has provided an
ambient environment for brainstorming on answer to the questions and more. Earlier in an opening speech, the Chairman of the occasion and traditional rule of Onitsha Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe lamented that Nigeria medical profession is witnessing brain drain and called Federal government to halt the situation with encouragement to the medical profession. 16 dead, 321 confirmed cases By Chioma Obinna President of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, Prof Innocent Ujah on Monday disclosed that no fewer than 1,031 doctors in Nigeria have been exposed to coronavirus in the country while 16 mortality cases were recorded as of 8th October 2020, putting the… October 20, 2020 In "News" ...calls for sustainable health financing in Nigeria ...as NARD holds 40th conference in Delta By Festus Ahon & Paul Olayemi DELTA State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, Thursday, said that with an abysmal 0.5 per cent of its Gross Domestic Product, GDP in public health spending, Nigeria had one of the… September 26, 2020 In "Health" The newly-elected President of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, Professor Innocent Ujah has said that his administration will prioritise the welfare of Nigerian doctors. May 31, 2020 In "Health"