President Muhammadu Buhari has said that he is pleased with the outcome of the bye-election conducted at the weekend in some states and advised the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, to continue to uphold the spirit of hard work. This is as the Presidency has expressed joy over the results coming from the states of the long list of the bye-elections, saying that the results showed that the APC was the chosen party of Nigerians. A statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja said, “While congratulating the successful candidates, President Muhammadu Buhari in particular, is very pleased with the election outcomes and urges the party to uphold the spirit of hard work, unity, progress, cooperation that forms the bedrock of these victories.” The statement said,” Results coming from the states of the long list of the bye-elections show definitely that our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), remains the chosen party of Nigerians. “We do not take this confidence of the people for granted and we will not fail them. “Nigerians who appreciate the efforts of the administration in making life better for all citizens, especially under an economy facing the severest test from the global Coronavirus pandemic will not be disappointed. “We thank them immensely for their trust in the party and government. “We equally thank the Interim Management Committee of the party under the capable leadership of His Excellency Mai Mala Buni, the Governor of Yobe State, the Progressive Governors Forum under Governor Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State, all our governors, parliamentarians, state, local government and ward level APC chapters and the entire ranks of the membership for this brave and impressionable performance.” Vanguard News Nigeria THE Presidency on Monday said that the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, was behaving like a militant group instead of following the democratic tenets in its activities on national issues. August 13, 2018 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari says his administration has no free money to give to everybody but it will continue to provide infrastructural facilities to all parts of the country with the meager resources available. January 28, 2019 In "News" HE Presidency on Monday said that the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the just concluded National Assembly bye elections in Katsina, Bauchi and Kogi States at the weekend was an evidence of the popularity of President Muhammadu Buhari. August 13, 2018 In "News"