Mastercard has partnered with Junior Achievement Nigeria (JAN) to help bridge the digital and financial literacy gap amongst school students and young adults in Nigeria. Through a series of programs, the students will be equipped with essential skills to prepare them for future success as digital entrepreneurs. The partnership forms part of Mastercard’s global commitments to connect 25 million women entrepreneurs to the digital economy, reach 50 million small businesses and financially include one billion people in the next five years. Leveraging the expertise of Mastercard employee volunteers, the partnership with JAN will inspire young adults across Nigeria through three unique activations which are Mastercard Girls4Tech Program; Mentoring participants of the JA Company Program; and Digital Payments Literacy Webinar. “Creating inclusive, equal opportunities is a key priority for Mastercard,” said Ifeoma Dozie, Director, Marketing and Communications, Sub-Saharan Africa at Mastercard. While commenting on the partnership, the Director of Marketing and Innovation, JAN, Oduolayinka Osunloye, expressed her gratitude to Mastercard adding that the partnership is a huge step in achieving JAN’s vision of developing one million digital entrepreneurs over the next five years. JAN is part of Junior Achievement Worldwide, the world’s oldest and largest non-profit economic education organization operating in 120 countries. The region has grown tremendously with dedicated resources, working with all stakeholders on a daily basis July 11, 2017 In "Interview" An alumnus of King’s College London where she bagged a Master’s degree in International Business Law, Ifeoma Dozie is currently the Director, Marketing and Communications Sub-Saharan Africa at Mastercard, where she oversees the company’s strategic communications. Well-versed in all aspects of traditional and digital marketing and driving business, Ifeoma has… April 11, 2020 In "Woman" THE teeming Nigerian women entrepreneurs,recently attracted the interest of international payment card solution providers, MasterCard, as it went into collaboration with Youth for Technology Foundation,YTF, in Nigeria,to boost entrepreneurial capabilities of over 1500 Nigerian women with technology hands-on trainings. April 2, 2014 In "Technology"