Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has promised to appoint a Senior Special Assistant on Disability Affairs, adding that his administration earmarked N500 million for Persons Living With Disabilities, PLWDs in the 2021 budget. Sanwo-Olu made the disclosure during an interactive session with the PLWDs at the Lagos House, Marina, on Wednesday, assuring that the fund would be accessed from next year 2021. He said that his government had observed some of the challenges of the physically-challenged in the state and would continue to engage them for a better relationship. Sanwo-Olu assured them that a Senior Special Assistant on Disability Affairs would facilitate better relationships with them. The governor, however, called on the private sector to collaborate in providing a conducive environment for people with special abilities across the state. Earlier, the PLWDs, through one of the speakers, Mr. Babatunde Muhammed, a representative of Nigeria Association of the Blinds, had requested for various support packages for PLWDs. He mentioned sign language teachers for the deaf, support from Local governments, inclusive education to enable the blind attend regular schools with able-bodied persons, the establishment of a government-owned school for the blind, more teachers and caregivers for children with intellectual disabilities and establishment of early intervention centres across the state and Special COVID-19 care package for PLWDs in case they contract the ravaging virus. Vanguard reports that Lagos State House of Assembly, on Tuesday, passed into law the budget size of N1.163,522,460,717 for the governor’s assent. The breakdown of the budget tagged “Budget of Rekindled Hope,” stood at N460,587,043,741, as recurrent, and capital expenditure of N702,935,416,976. Vanguard News Nigeria THE  Coalition of Progressives Political Parties, CPPP, has said that there is no line of demarcation between it and the Lagos State All progressives Congress, APC, candidate, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and hence its endorsement of his 2019 aspiration. November 5, 2018 In "News" A good head and goodheart are always a formidable combination. But when you add to that a literate tongue or pen, then you have something special – Nelson Mandela. June 26, 2019 In "News" WITH an estimated population of 23 million people, Lagos has been in slumber in recent times considering the decaying infrastructure and slow pace of developments. August 30, 2019 In "News"