Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara, late on Thursday, sworn-in five new special advisers and four permanent secretaries. Speaking during the event, which lasted until about 1.30 a.m. on Friday, Matawalle said that the new appointments would cover the manpower gaps recently created within the system. “As we speak, no fewer than ten permanent secretaries are due for retirement, we must take steps to cover such manpower gap for effective service delivery. “We also need the special advisers to take charge of some government agencies that have yet to get political leaderships. “This is in the interest of effective administration,’’ the governor said. He urged the new appointees to key into the policy thrust of his administration in order to provide good services for the people. “You are urged to justify the trust and confidence reposed in you. “We want to see this in your ability to manage public resources and you should remember that our administration has zero-tolerance for corruption.’’ The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that those sworn-in as special adviser were: Dahiru Mohammed, Habibu Yuguda, Hashimu Mohammed, Sani Danjuma and Sani Shehu. Matawalle also swore-in Lawali Mainasara, Musa Liman, Mainasara Shehu and Tukur Garba as permanent secretaries. Responding on behalf of the appointees, Alhaji Habibu Yuguda pledged their commitment to strengthen the governor’s team towards efficient delivery of service. He thanked the governor for giving them the opportunity to serve the state. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria Zamfara Commissioner of Education, Alhaji Jamilu Zannah has resigned barely two weeks after the inauguration of the state executive council. Zannah hinged his resignation to “high-handedness” and lack of consultation on the part of Gov. Bello Matawalle. The government has however dismissed the claims, saying Zannah’s action was unfortunate, selfish… December 21, 2019 In "News" Governors Aminu Tambuwal, Darius Ishaku, Mai Mala Buni, Bello Matawalle, Abdullahi Ganduje, Ahmadu Fintiri and Samuel Ortom of Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe, Adamawa, Kano, Zamfara and Benue states, respectively, have urged Muslims and other Nigerians to intensify their prayers and adhere strictly to precautionary measures against Coronavirus, COVID-19, as Muslims, yesterday,… May 25, 2020 In "News" Zamfara Government on Tuesday announced the immediate closure of 10 secondary schools believed to be vulnerable to bandits’ attacks. December 16, 2020 In "News"