CHAIRMAN of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, weekend, disclosed that some fleeing Boko Haram insurgents have relocated to the South-West, where they are now operating as kidnappers. Speaking when he featured in a Channels TV programme on Sunday, Fayemi also hinted that the insurgents are also operating as bandits in the North-West. He said the Boko Haram insurgency, which returned to the front burner following  the killing of over 40 farmers  in Borno State, is not limited to the state. Owing to the massacre, which received widespread condemnation, some Nigerians have called for the sack of the service chiefs while others are calling for a state of emergency. His words: “Some of the insurgents that escaped from the Boko Haram territory are the ones prosecuting the banditry in the North-West; some of them are involved in the kidnapping in the south-west. “ISWAP (a faction of Boko Haram) insurgents coming down from Sudan, from Niger (Republic) are involved in what is going on. How many states are you going to declare (a) state of emergency on then? So, we must take a holistic view of this.” He also said though the war against insurgency is being supported by a multinational joint task force, the operation is not “as cohesive as it should”. “We also believe that the entire framework of our internal security operation has to be reviewed. Some morale-boosting issues have to be brought to the fore as far as the leadership of the military is concerned.” It’s a sad reality —Afenifere Reacting to Fayemi’s statement, the pan-Yoruba socio-political organization, Afenifere described it as a sad reality. Afenifere’s National Publicity Secretary, Yinka Odumakin said: “As chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, Dr. Kayode Feyemu is not a frivolous flippant person. Kidnapping is all around us in the South West, he is only saying the obvious and sad reality. No lie can change that.” Vanguard News Nigeria ...Express solidarity with Zulum over attack by Boko Haram By Henry Umoru Governor of the 36 states of the federation yesterday raised alarm over the precarious security situation in the country, seeking to meet President Muhammadu Buhari to find a way to quickly nip the problem in the bud. The… August 4, 2020 In "News" ...rescue 5 humanitarian workers, Kill 14 terrorists ...Kill 2 bandits in North West, rescue 13 kidnap victims By Kingsley Omonobi In continuation of the operations to rid the Northeast of Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists, troops of the Nigerian Army have foiled an attempt by terrorists to move a truck… January 26, 2020 In "News" FOLLOWING the killing of Persons and destruction of properties on Sunday night by Boko Haram insurgents who invaded Auno, a village which is 20 Kilometres from Borno State capital, Maiduguri, the thirty- six State Governors under the aegis of the Nigeria Governors Forum, NGF has condemned the dastardly act in… February 13, 2020 In "News"