“Nigeria, indeed the world has lost an expert in public health,” President Muhammadu Buhari said on receiving the news of the passing of Professor Adetokunbo Oluwole Lucas, OFR, at the age of 89. The President commiserates with the family, friends, medical community and academia over the passage of the global health leader for Africa and award winner for his outstanding support for research on tropical diseases especially malaria, bilharzia and leprosy. Disclosing this in a statement Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, said: President Buhari notes that as Professor and Head of Department of Preventive and Social Medicine in the University College of London in Ibadan, (later University of Ibadan); pioneer Chairman, Nigerian Medical Research Council; and Chair of the Committee on National Health Policy, among other national positions, Prof Lucas without doubt left indelible national imprints. According to the President, “Prof Lucas made his name even beyond the shores of Nigeria,” while referring to his decade at the World Health Organisation (WHO) in Geneva as Director, Special Programmes for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases as well as his times as Professor of International Health at Harvard University, Boston, and adjunct professor. President Buhari urges the numerous former students and admirers of the eminent scholar and researcher to build on the solid foundations laid by Prof Lucas for national growth. He prays God Almighty to console all those who mourn the well-respected “teacher of teachers” and grant the soul of Prof Lucas peaceful rest. Vanguard News Nigeria The President of Nigerian Academy of Science, Professor Oyewale Tomori has been elected as international member of the US National Academy of Medicine, Class of 2016. October 19, 2016 In "Health" EIGHTY one-year-old Professor Adetokunbo Lucas, Adjunct Professor of International Health, Harvard University, Cambridge, USA, front line researcher and high profile board member of the world's most respected health agencies was one of Nigeria's youngest professors. His commitment to the eradication of tropical infectious diseases such as guinea worm, polio, as… February 24, 2013 In "Health" NIGERIA’s poor health indices has been blamed on lack of appropriate planning, execution and monitoring mechanism. December 5, 2017 In "Health"