The Federal Government has ordered the closure of bars, nightclubs, and restaurants across the country, just as it reduced the number of guests at weddings, conferences, among others, to 50, following the second wave of COVID-19. These were part of the new measures President Muhammadu Buhari has approved to curtail the further spread of COVID-19 across the country. Boss Mustapha, Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, disclosed this at a briefing in Abuja on Monday. Boss Mustapha said: “The PTF has surveyed developments and actions taken by governments around the world, assessed our domestic environment and has, accordingly, submitted its recommendations to Mr. President on immediate measures to be taken. “Accordingly, President Muhammadu Buhari has authorised the PTF to engage with the states and the FCT to assume full ownership of this stage of the response by deploying legal structures and resources, including enforcement to manage the pandemic within their jurisdictions. “In line with the authorisation, the PTF wishes to issue the following advisories to sub-national entities for implementation over the next five weeks because these activities are considered super spreader events: “Close all bars, night clubs, pubs and event centres, and recreational venues; close all restaurants except those providing services to hotel residents, takeaways, home deliveries and drive-ins shall remain closed; “Restrict all informal and formal festivity events including weddings, conferences, congresses, office parties, concerts, seminars, sporting activities, end of year events shall be restricted to not more than 50 persons; “Limit All gatherings linked to religious events to less than 50% capacity of the facility of use during which physical distancing; mandatory use of face masks shall be strictly enforced, and “Where more than 50 persons are attending, any such events, the gathering should be held outdoors only.” Vanguard News Nigeria The Secretary to the government of the federation and chairman of the PTF, Boss Mustapha, announced on Monday, that President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the lifting of the ban on religious gatherings across the country. June 1, 2020 In "News" …To test 100, 000 Corps members By Omeiza Ajayi The federal government has again relaxed the Covid-19 Restrictions, saying it would however not fail to recommend stricter measures should there be gross violation of the safety protocol and an attendant spike in infections. Secretary to the Government of the Federation… October 15, 2020 In "News" The Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, on Monday, called for unity in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. Mustapha, who is also the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, made the call at the PTF daily briefing on COVID-19 in… April 27, 2020 In "News"