President Muhammadu Buhari has saluted the sacrifices of 20 doctors reportedly killed by COVID-19 pandemic, saying their welfare was a priority for his government. The President has sent his condolence to the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, over the death of the doctors. Reacting to the sacrifices made by the frontline medical workers, President Buhari said, “the death of our front line health workers in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic is particularly sad because these professionals risk their own lives in order to save others.” The President in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja on Saturday said, “our health workers are making maximum sacrifices for the country in line with their humanitarian calling, and this administration will leave no stone unturned in order to ensure their needs are met.” He noted that “our health workers are operating under severe limitations, but they are undeterred in discharging their duties in saving lives.” “Let me say without any fear of contradiction that no reward is too much for the sacrifices of our health workers in the country, and this administration will give their welfare the priority it deserves,” President Buhari added. Meanwhile, the President has also expressed his sadness over the demise of the Galadiman Lokoja, Chief Godwin Ajakpo, and the chairman of Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga (retd), a former military Governor. Vanguard News Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari has saluted the sacrifices of 20 doctors reportedly killed by COVID-19 in the country, saying the welfare of frontline medical workers is a priority of his government. The president had sent his condolences to the Nigerian Medical Association over the death of the doctors due to the… December 27, 2020 In "News" Worried by the waves of sudden deaths that hit Kano, the former governor, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso has called on the President Muhammadu Buhari led Federal government to order an independent expert team to probe the cause of the deaths in the state. April 28, 2020 In "News" The National Association of Government General Medical and Dental Practitioners (NAGGMDP) on Monday advised the Federal Government to create a uniform templates for the fight against Covid-19 pandemic in Nigeria. April 13, 2020 In "News"