Jose Mourinho does not expect Tottenham to be complacent in Sunday’s north London derby despite the mixed recent form of rivals Arsenal. The Portuguese manager criticised members of his squad following the 3-3 draw with LASK on Thursday. He believes some have lacked motivation during the Europa League group stages, but there will be no shortage of incentive this weekend when Mikel Arteta’s team travel to N17. While the Gunners are 14th in the Premier League, eight points behind leaders Spurs, it was only back in August when they triumphed twice at Wembley to clinch silverware under their new manager. “I think everybody knows what Arsenal did recently, the way they beat Chelsea and (Manchester) City to win the FA Cup,” Mourinho said. “The way they played in Liverpool in spite of defeat, the way they beat United at Old Trafford, the way they normally play against the top teams. “The number of players they use in the defensive process, the way they go in fast counter-attacks and fast transitions. I don’t think I need to (warn the players about complacency). “But probably I will, but I don’t think we need that. We all know that a derby is nothing to do with form, momentum, injuries, suspensions. It’s nothing to do with that. It’s just Tottenham v Arsenal.” Vanguard News Nigeria Jose Mourinho said he hoped old rival Arsene Wenger remained in football after the Frenchman announced Friday he would end his 22-year reign as Arsenal manager at the end of the season. April 20, 2018 In "Sports" Tottenham boss Jose Mourinho says he cannot imagine the prospect of managing another club, refusing to say whether he would have been interested in the Arsenal job, which became available on Friday. The Portuguese was named as Spurs boss last week following Mauricio Pochettino's sacking and has started in style,… November 29, 2019 In "News" Jose Mourinho has led a chorus of dismay among Chelsea's title rivals about the festive fixture schedule after accusing the Premier League of "choosing to give rest for some and to create problems for others". December 24, 2016 In "Sports"