GOVERNOR Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, yesterday, called for the restructuring of the country before the conduct of the 2023 general elections. Governor Makinde said this while handing over 33 operational vehicles and 396 motorcycles to the Oyo State Security Network, codenamed Amotekun Corps, for its take-off. While addressing members of the corps during the occasion, at the Oyo State House of Assembly Complex, Secretariat, Ibadan, the governor expressed that the clamour for the establishment of state police to protect lives and property birthed the community policing system. Makinde, however, berated moves by some political leaders across the country towards becoming president in 2023. He said: “I heard some of our political leaders are going around to say they want to be president of Nigeria in 2023. I think what we need at this stage is to secure our people, to restructure Nigeria. “It doesn’t matter who is the president in Abuja, if they restructure Nigeria, every corner of the country will feel the impact of government.” He promised to make the welfare of the Corps top priority, saying: “We will ensure we do everything humanly possible to support you, so, do not be afraid.” Earlier in his address, Chairman of Amotekun Corps, Col. Kunle Togun (retd), commended the governor for his support and concern towards securing the lives of the people in the state. He expressed his readiness to make Amotekun Corps accountable and responsible to the people by ensuring discipline and diligence in their operation. Vanguard News Nigeria Gov Seyi Makinde of Oyo State on Tuesday, launched 33 pick-up vehicles and 396 motorcycles for the smooth operation of the Western Nigeria Security Network, code-named Amotekun, in the state. Makinde said the provision of the two facilities was to strengthen the hands of the Amotekun corps. The governor, who… December 15, 2020 In "News" SEEING provision of security as one of the key functions of any responsible and responsive government, governors of the southwestern states in Nigeria on Thursday converged on Ibadan to launch the Western Nigeria Security Network (WNSN) tagged: 'Operation Amotekun' with the aim to ensure an end to insecurity in the… January 10, 2020 In "News" By Adeola Badru In his bid to ensure a safe, secured urban and rural communities in Oyo State, Governor Seyi Makinde, on Wednesday, said the state's Security Network Agency code named: "Ameotekun Corps" will serve as a local response, which would enhance a peaceful and stable society that will lead… November 19, 2020 In "News"