By Ugochukwu Alaribe – Umuahia Abia state government has warned tricycle operators in the state against attacking the State Internal Revenue Service, ABiRS, enforcement team. Tricycle operators in Abia had on December 1, 2020, attacked the enforcement team of the State revenue service along Aba-Owerri Road, Aba. The Abia State Government had introduced online sale of daily tickets to tricycle operators at N100. However, most of the tricycle operators still prefer the old system where they buy from roadside agents, stressing that they spend more time buying the online tickets. A statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Mr Chris Ezem, disclosed that the government is investigating the assault to identify the perpetrator as well as ensure punishment to serve as deterrent to others. “For avoidance of doubt, the general public is to note that ABiRS and its agents are empowered by relevant laws to enforce collection of all taxes, fees and levies due to the state Government. Therefore, any transport union or individual(s) with the intention to cause disturbances in the State in order to stop collection of government revenues will be dealt with decisively in accordance with the laws of the country. ”Security personnel have been placed on red alert on this matter to apprehend and prosecute the perpetrators,” the statement read in part. Vanguard News Nigeria Abia State government, yesterday, said it would Monday, August 8, begin the enforcement of the ban on street trading in the state and advised traders to relocate to approved sites, even as it extended the operational hours of tricycle (Keke) operators in the state from 7pm to 9pm. August 4, 2016 In "News" TRICYCLE operators in Aba, Abia State have called on the state governor, Okezie Ikpeazu to remove multiple taxes levied on them by government in the commercial city to enable them feed their families and meet other responsibilities of life. February 10, 2016 In "News" The Abia Police Command on Thursday confirmed the killing of a tricycle rider identified as Chidera Agu in Aba by unknown gunmen. March 27, 2014 In "News"