The Nasarawa State Government has procured 38 and distributed 31 trucks of fertilizers to farmers across the 13 local government and 18 development areas in order to boost food security in the state. Commissioner for Agriculture, Professor Alanana Otaki disclosed this when he appeared before the state House of Assembly Committee on Agriculture to defend the ministry’s 2021 budget proposal in Lafia. According to Professor Allahnana, each local government and development areas has already been given one truck of fertilizer, adding that the local government councils and development areas are awaiting for the directive of the government for onward distribution to farmers. “As a ministry, we are doing our best in boosting food production in order to ensure food security through our various agricultural policies and programmes in the state. ”I want to inform you that we have purchased 38 trucks of fertilizers and have already sent one truck to local government and development areas. He said that the remaining 7 trucks are kept with the ministry as local government councils are awaiting the state government directive to distribute the fertilizers to their farmers. The commissioner, however, said that the ministry needed more funds to purchase machines, equipment among other farming tools for the overall development of the state. Earlier, Chairman of the committee, Dr Peter Akwe (PDP-Obi 1) had assured the state government of the Assembly’s readiness to support its efforts at boosting food production in the state. ”We will continue to support the government to succeed as the importance of Agriculture to human and society development could not be overemphasised. Vanguard News Nigeria AS Farmers in Nasarawa state laments inadequate supply of fertilizer products in the state, facts emerged yesterday that aids to Governor Almakura saddled with the distribution of fertilizer to farmers for the 2017 farming season have been diverting the product leaving farmers to their fate July 20, 2017 In "News" The President of Nigerian Association of Women In Agriculture, NAWIA, Mrs. Ngizan Chahul has appealed to the Nasawara state government to emulate its Benue state counterpart by commencing the formation of environmental friendly state agriculture policy document. October 26, 2017 In "Agric" The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) have lambasted the federal government over the proposed N60 billion phones-for-farmers policy saying it is a misplaced priority. January 7, 2013 In "Finance"