Livespot X, the entertainment extension of the creative collective, Livespot360, has teamed up with Nigeria’s biggest artists for a limited live concert, titled Livespot X-Clusive. The star-studded event, according to the organisers, will be held in Lagos on December 19 and 20, 2020. There will also be a virtual edition on Livespot Nation. Livespot360 revealed that Livespot X-Clusive was borne out of a desire to celebrate the best of Nigerian music and stage an exciting end to a very tough year. In true fashion, Livespot360 has acquired the buy-in of one of Nigeria’s biggest artists, Wizkid, who will headline the concert. Also billed to perform are established artists such as Simi, Yemi Alade, and Darey. Instead of the usual crowded concerts that Lagos is known for, the two-day event will be very exclusive with limited seating in line with COVID-19 restrictions. Fans and interested parties unable to secure tickets to the physical concert will still be able to watch the show via livestream accessible on Livespot Nation. Vanguard News Nigeria Some of Nigeria’s biggest music stars, performed in the first edition of the Livespot X Festival. The impressive lineup of music acts that graced the stage alongside Cardi B include Tiwa Savage, Patoranking, Ice Prince, Niniola, Seyi Shay, Darey, Reekado Banks, Joeboy, DJ Cuppy, DJ Spinall, DJ Deluxe and Burna… December 15, 2019 In "Entertainment" Nigeria’s Multi-platinum ‘Afro & B’ artist Darey has announced his anticipated return with new single ‘Jah Guide Me’, accompanied by a stunning official music video, out 14th August on Livespot Entertainment. Exploring the importance of hope and inspiration in these difficult times, ‘Jah Guide Me’ see’s Darey utilise a feelgood,… August 17, 2020 In "News" After weeks of excitement and anxiety it all goes down tonight at the first edition of the Livespot X Festival where American female rapper and Grammy awards-winning star, Cardi B will be the headliner alongside Nigeria's finest superstar singers. Perhaps, the biggest imagination running wild has been the prospect of having… December 7, 2019 In "Entertainment"