Few minutes to 2021, Mr George Nkencho, a 27-year-old Nigerian has been reportedly killed in Ireland. The NIDCOM Chairman, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Thursday urged Nigerian community in Ireland to be calm, noting that investigations are ongoing to ascertain how and why he was killed. Read the full statement below: DABIRI-EREWA DEMANDS JUSTICE FOR NIGERIAN KILLED IN IRELAND Abuja, December 31, 2020: Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman /CEO, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) has condemned in strong terms the killing of Mr George Nkencho, a 27-year-old Nigerian in Ireland. In a statement by Abdur-Rahman Balogun, NIDCOM Head of Media and Public Relations, described the death of a young Nigerian by a Police officer as callous and wicked. Dabiri-Erewa, who was apparently disturbed by the killing, called for a full, thorough, and fair investigation into the matter. She appealed to the obviously enraged Nigerian community in Ireland to exercise patience and await the outcome of an investigation into the unfortunate incident. The NIDCOM boss condoled with the family of Nkencho and the Nigerian community in Ireland over the killing of George and prayed God to give the family and friends the fortitude to bear the irreplaceable loss. Already, the African Advocacy Network Ireland (AANI) has expressed shock to learn about the callous shooting dead of George Nkencho on Wednesday, December 30. The group said the circumstances surrounding the killing of a mentally challenged young man has enraged the African community and demanded a full independent public inquiry. Signed. Abdur-Rahman Balogun Head, Media and Public Relations NIDCOM Abuja. Vanguard News Nigeria Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman/CEO, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), has demanded for justice for a Nigerian who was burnt to death on Oct. 7 in Tripoli, Libya. Dabiri-Erewa made this known to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday, after meeting with the Libyan Ambassador to Nigeria, Ayad Attayary,… October 15, 2020 In "News" Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora,  has condemned the further extra judicial killings of Nigerians living in South Africa. September 2, 2017 In "News" The Nigerian Embassy in Ukraine has petitioned the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Police Department in Kharkiv demanding full investigations into the circumstances surrounding the alleged stabbing to death of a Nigerian, Gbolade Ejemai. Ejemai, a medical doctor was allegedly stabbed to death by one Victoria Popravko, with… August 21, 2019 In "News"