Hundreds of disengaged workers of the Kwara State Universal Basic Education Board on Wednesday held a peaceful protest over the termination of their appointments by the state government. The aggrieved teachers who converged in multitude at the Kwara State Government House were seen sitting on the floor, weeping under the scorching sun in agitation for their reinstatement. Recall that the Kwara State Government sacked over 2000 teachers in Kwara over discrepancies that marred their employment process. Spokesperson of the protesters, Mrs Ateyobi Esther, appealed to the state government to temper justice with mercy and revoke her decisions concerning their dismissal. “We have been in this job for the past 2years. At first, we thought we were going to be disengaged but the governor promised us that he would not disengage us. Most of us were single before but later got married after getting the appointment. The Governor should please help us, our means of livelihood rely on this appointment, they should please have mercy on us,” she pleaded. The Chief Press Secretary to Kwara State Governor, Rafiu Ajakaye while addressing the protesters explained that the decision of the government is aimed at reforming the educational system through the recruitment of outstanding teachers. Ajakaye further noted that the government will roll out a fresh advert on Friday which will be merit-based and technologically-driven. Vanguard News Nigeria FOLLOWING Vanguard report on the plight of workers that were thrown out of their jobs by the management of Kwara State-owned Kwara Hotel, KH,  over 20 months ago without even termination letters, has triggered off another controversy between the aggrieved former workers and the Kwara State Government, owners of KH. March 27, 2019 In "News" The Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) in Kwara State has said primary school teachers in the state will embark on strike, today, to protest the non-payment of their four months’ salary arrears. January 4, 2016 In "News" Ilorin—Primary and secondary school teachers across the 16 local government areas of Kwara State, yesterday, protested four months unpaid salaries and threatened not to resume on Monday, if they are not paid. September 12, 2018 In "News"