THE Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, has  told the Federal Government of Nigerian, South-East and South-South governors, and security agencies that its newly established Eastern Security Network, ESN, is a child of necessity that has come to stay. The group said governments must stop terrorism before thinking of stopping ESN. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful entitled: “Stop terrorism first before attempting to stop ESN,” IPOB described the statement allegedly credited to Governor Dave Umahi on behalf of his colleague governors as one coming from a lilly-livered people. IPOB described the statement as cowardly, and nothing but a shameful display of irredeemable enslavement and loyalty to their caliphate slave-masters who in the first place appointed them governors. The Biafra agitation group claimed that the governors by their statement against ESN were only further exposing their emptiness and detachment from the people. “At a time when well-meaning individuals and groups from the entire Southern Nigeria and Middle Belt are hailing the setting up of ESN, the so-called governors are busy advertising their opposition to the people they claim to be leading. Anyway, they never had the mandate of the people. So, we are not surprised.” IPOB statement read in part: “Our message to the treacherous South-East governors and their South-South counterparts is that ‘the train has since left the station’ and can’t reverse it’s course. It’s pretty too late to have a rethink. The people have got what they long desired which the cowardly governors failed to give them because of selfish political interest. “May we remind the traitors that the Eastern region cannot be sacrificed on the altar of their political interest. It’s either they key in or shape out! The East can exist without them. They should steer clear because they can’t withstand the force behind ESN.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Chimaobi Nwaiwu Following the inability of South-East governors, to float a security outfit like the Amotekun of the South-West, the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, weekend, floated a security outfit named Eastern Security Network, ESN. IPOB in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, said that… December 14, 2020 In "News" INDIGENOUS People of Biafra IPOB, yesterday alleged that the Federal Government arrested Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe because he allegedly exposed N30 billion budget fraud perpetrated by the APC government. June 24, 2018 In "News" Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has described the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) as a terrorist group and signed an executive order to reinforce the ban on IPOB its activities in the state. October 29, 2020 In "News"