FCT Minister Muhammad Bello on Wednesday inspected the Idu COVID-19 Isolation and Treatment Centre as part of FCTA’s commitment to effectively fight any second wave of the pandemic in Abuja. The information is in a statement issued by the minister’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Anthony Ogunleye in Abuja. Ogunleye stated that Bello, who was accompanied by senior staff of the Health and Human Services and Social Development Secretariats, explained that the inspection was to reconfirm the functionality of the COVID-19 Isolation and Treatment Centre. He expressed satisfaction with the efforts of the Health and Human Services Secretariat in the management of the centre, adding that the facilities were being upgraded to accommodate patients who might require further treatment such as the use of oxygen. Dr Muhammad Kawu, the acting Secretary of the Health and Human Services Secretariat, said the centre was fully functional as it had in place a 20-bed ward for patients that might require intensive interventions. He revealed that the staff of the centre were trained in the management of COVID-19 following the first wave before being deployed to the centre. Kawu, who said that the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic appeared to be severe than the first wave, noted that more patients now required intensive care as some had succumbed to the disease. He, therefore, urged residents to continue to observe the preventive measures as released by the relevant health and medical authorities. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the FCTA established seven isolation and treatment centres with 920 beds, including Intensive Care Unit facilities exceeding the 300 beds capacity recommended for states by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. Vanguard News Nigeria By Omeiza Ajayi Enraged by reports that some high-profile individuals in the nation's capital, Abuja who tested positive for the COVID-19 have rejected their evacuation to the isolation centres and instead opted for treatment in their homes, Minister of the Federal Capital Territory FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has vowed to… April 23, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) will invoke relevant laws that enables it to mandatorily evacuate recalcitrant COVID-19 patients to treatment centres, the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello has said. Bello, a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Anthony Ogunleye, on Thursday in Abuja said the measure was… April 24, 2020 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja The Federal Capital Territory Administration FCTA has dismissed reports that it has shut down its COVID-19 Isolation Centre in Idu, saying the centre is still in operation. Acting Secretary, Health and Human Services Secretariat HHSS in the FCT, Dr Mohammed Kawu disclosed this in a… October 31, 2020 In "News"