Governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC have mourned the passing of Leadership Newspaper Publisher, Mr Sam Nda-Isaiah, describing his death as a loss to the progressive community in Nigeria. Chairman of the forum and Governor of Kebbi State, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu stated this in a message of condolence issued Saturday in Abuja. “The Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) received the death of Mr. Samuel Nda-Isaiah with heavy heart and gratitude to God for a life well-lived. “We join the family, members of All Progressives Congress in Niger State and the nation, to pray for the repose of the soul of our dear and beloved Chairman of Leadership Newspapers Group and former presidential aspirant on the platform of our party, APC. “His death is a loss to the nation, the Nigerian progressive community and the global media world. “We pray to God Almighty to grant his family the fortitude to bear this heavy loss. May Allah reward all the good work of Pharmacist Samuel Nda-Isaiah, forgive his limitations and bless what he left behind”. Mr Nda-Isaiah died late Friday at a hospital in Abuja after a brief illness. He had on Thursday performed all his official functions including the inauguration of the editorial board of his new publication, National Economy. Vanguard News Nigeria Governor Adams Oshiomhole of Edo State has commiserated with the Governor of Kwara State, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed on the death of his mother, Hajia Ramotalahi Ahmed. November 18, 2014 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja Governors of the ruling All Progressives Forum APC have mourned the death of their erstwhile colleague and former Governor of Oyo State, Sen. Abiola Ajimobi, describing his passing as a great loss to Nigeria's progressive community. Chairman of the Progressive Governors' Forum PGF and Governor… June 27, 2020 In "News" ABUJA—THE National Working Committee, NWC, of the All progressives Congress, APC, yesterday, paid one of the party’s presidential aspirants, Mr. Sam Nda-Isaiah, a condolence over the death of his father, Pa Clement Ndanusa Isaiah. November 19, 2014 In "News"