Every plan to ‘turn up’ this December and make it ‘detty’ will have to be reconsidered or done low-key as Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Friday, imposed new restrictions due to the increased number of Covid-19 cases in the country, with Lagos being one of the most affected states. Lagosians who already had plans of celebrating what they thought was a triumph over the pandemic may have to do so in their houses now as the ban affects organisation of concerts, street parties and night clubs. Even religious gatherings are not left out- they are expected to have services not longer than two hours and must not exceed 50 per cent of the maximum capacity of the venue. For those who had plans in place, it is now a case of ‘pouring sand in their garri’ and ‘detty december plans made dirty’. Read how some Lagosians are reacting below… sanwo olu don pour hypo for people december  pic.twitter.com/qMnaqAKrlt — ok lydia. (@Lydizzzle_) December 18, 2020  That’s how daddy sanwo olu saved those of us who couldn’t afford detty December some shame. pic.twitter.com/QMTqqNZTle — Ishuwa Brown (@BrownIshuwa) December 18, 2020  Sanwo Olu don help us wash our Detty December in advance pic.twitter.com/BuryorfwHi — Me (@lmaotrouble2) December 18, 2020  “My December is going to be detty” Sanwo Olu in Isolation: pic.twitter.com/eN6Su5pgqo — Felipe Lobo (@daddytrendz) December 19, 2020  Me traveling back from Canada to come and do detty December
Sanwo olu: pic.twitter.com/nyfVqtggPy — ✣քʀɛƈɨօʊֆ✣ ❁ (@1prcious) December 18, 2020  You left port Harcourt for lagos for the Christmas only to find out that Sanwo olu doesn’t have money for detty December so his shutting down Lagos pic.twitter.com/ujRzFh2Ald — lazy Rufus (@Real_lazyrufus) December 19, 2020  Lagos going into another lockdown like after we Don loot the whole palliative.
Lagosians be like to sanwó olú pic.twitter.com/cdDvHOOdjJ — READiGarget (@readione18) December 18, 2020  Me as Sanwo Olu Be like say I go confess ooo, dem Don swear for me tire pic.twitter.com/NsAKPUBYkD — DANNY WALTER  (@DannyWalta) December 14, 2020  We the boneless girls association say Sanwo Olu thank you o nobody will be oppressing and tensioning us this December as we no buy bone straight God bless you sir #Lockdown2 pic.twitter.com/xP9S4Ar3On — the.cozyspace on IG (@rachelb08707818) December 19, 2020  El Rufai Nd sanwo- olu give those two governors two cold bottles of stout for canceling Detty December. #COVID19 #DettyDecember pic.twitter.com/couWFbZbqq — sortedtv (@sortedtv1) December 18, 2020  Vanguard News Nigeria By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has urged residents to disregard the videos trending on social media which he said "are the tools of anarchists," whose plan is to create hatred and divisiveness for which Lagos is not known. The state government, while assuring that the state… October 25, 2020 In "News" Lagos State Governor-elect, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu said he was confident that the people of the State would choose courage over fear in the just concluded gubernatorial election. March 11, 2019 In "News" THE Medilag 90 Group, made up of the 1990 medical and dental graduates of the University of Lagos, College of Medicine, have urged the Lagos State Governor-Elect, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu to resuscitate 37 non-functional Primary Health and Dental Care Centers in the state when sworn in. March 14, 2019 In "News"