President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan has said that in religion and tradition, there is no division or dichotomy among us as Nigerians. Speaking on Saturday, when he paid a condolence visit to former Governor of Kano State, Senator Rabi’u Kwankwaso over the death of his father, Alhaji Musa Sale Kwankwaso, said that irrespective of personal or political differences, there must be condolence visit to Condole with anybody who is bereaved, adding that if something good happens, it is also for people to rejoice and congratulate one another, adding that this is the way we should treat each other and also what is expected of us. In a statement on Saturday by his Special Adviser, Media, OlaAwoniyi, Lawan was in accompany of the Chairman, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress(APC), Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni and the Senate Deputy Minority Whip, Senator Sahabi Yau Kaura during the condolence visit to Kano. Alhaji Musa Sale Kwankwaso died and was buried on Friday. According to him, the Senate President and the Yobe State Governor and their entourage held prayers with Senator Kwankwaso at his Kano home at Miller Road, Bompai, and also at the graveside of his father. Speaking shortly on arrival, Lawan said that the visit was specifically to sympathise and condole with Senator Kwankwaso on the demise of his father. Lawan said, “This loss is for all of us. Religiously and traditionally, there is no division or dichotomy among us. This is what we should do to condole with anybody who is bereaved. Likewise, if something good happens, it’s also for us to rejoice and congratulate one another. This is the way we should treat each other. This is what is expected of us. “We pray that God should have mercy on our father. God should forgive him. He lived a fulfilled and befitting life. He lived a life of service, helping others. He lived a life of sacrifice and brought unity to the community. “We that he left behind, may we also leave a good legacy behind when our time is over. May God grant you the fortitude to bear the loss. May God console all of us for this great loss of our father.” Responding, Senator Kwankwaso thanked his guests for being able to spare time to pay his family the condolence visit. Vanguard News Nigeria ABUJA- AHEAD of the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly and election of Presiding officers, Senate Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, All Progressives Congress, APC, Yobe North has intensified his campaign strategy to actualize his aspiration for the position of Senate President. May 6, 2019 In "News" Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, in Kano warned those advocating division of the country to tread the path of caution. July 6, 2017 In "News" A Presidential   aspirant on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Senator  Rabiu Kwankwaso, has said Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State deserves a second term on the strength of his  projects. August 14, 2018 In "News"