Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has threatened to shut down churches if they fail to comply with the COVID-19 guidelines. Wike made this known during the thanksgiving service in celebration of the 90th birthday of Priscilla Mark, held at St. Martin’s Anglican Church, Omagwa in Ikwerre local government area of the state. He lamented the refusal of residents to use face masks, especially in churches and markets. “When you go to most churches, they don’t wear masks. Go to markets, they don’t wear masks. They believe COVID-19 is not real. It’s not real because it has not happened to you. Nobody has died whom you know that is very close to you. But if somebody has died and the person was close to you, you’ll know that COVID-19 is real,” he said. “I want to appeal to all of you that we have to be stricter now because of the way the second wave is going; it is more deadly than the first wave. I know how many people we have lost since the second wave started. “Tell all the churches in your diocese that everybody must wear masks. If you don’t comply, I’ll have no choice but to shut down the churches. Pentecostal, Catholic, Anglican, whatever, I’ll have no choice, because when you have it, who spends the money to treat? It’s the state. We need to use the money for some other thing, not for this. So, we should be able to discipline ourselves.” Vanguard news Nigeria By Davies Iheamnachor Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has hinted that he would re-impose COVID-19 lockdown in the state beginning from January following the recent upsurge in the number of coronavirus cases in the State. Wike according to a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri,… December 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Government of Rivers, on Sunday, in Port Harcourt, has warned that it may re-impose lockdown in January to contain the new surge in Coronavirus cases in the State. Gov. Nyesom Wike handed the warning at a thanksgiving service in celebration of the 90th birthday of Mrs. Priscilla Mark, at… December 28, 2020 In "News" By Egufe Yafugborhi, Port-Harcourt Governor Nyesom Wike on Sunday hinted on locking down Rivers state in January next year amidst a resurgence of COVID-19 in the state in the wake of a second wave. Wike, giving the hint in Port Harcourt, expressed as worrisome the refusal by most churches and… December 27, 2020 In "News"