There is likely going to be urgent replacement of some of the Nigeria satellites in the orbit, which have outlived their usefulness. This is as the National Council on Science, Technology and Innovation (NCSTI) has called for immediate commencement of building and launching of NigeriaSat-3 and NigeriaSat-1 to replace the Nigeriasat-2 and NigeriaSat-x which have outlived their life span. The Council also stressed the need for urgent take-off of the National Research and Innovation Fund (NRIF). The call was contained in the recommendations made at the 18th  meeting of the National Council on Science, Technology and Innovation (NCSTI) held at the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC), Maitama, Abuja, with the theme:  The Utilization of Science, Technology and Innovation for Post COVID-19 Socio-economic Recovery and Sustainability. The meeting chaired by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry,    Mr. Edet Sunday Akpan also had the permanent secretaries in charge of Science and Technology from the 36 states of the federation in attendance. The technical session featured the opening remarks by the chairman, consideration and adoption of the minutes of the 17th  NCST as well as presentation of 169 memoranda for which  120 were for Council’s noting, while 44 were for approval of Council. The Recommendations of the technical Committee were presented to Council at its meeting Chaired by the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu and assisted by his Minister of State, Barr. Mohammed Abdullahi and Information and Culture Minister, Alh. Lai Mohammed, representative of the regional director, UNESCO, Dr. Enang Moma and permanent Secretaries of states Ministries in charge of science and technology and related Ministries. Vanguard News Nigeria There is no nation in the world that can develop without the development of its science and technology. In recognition of this, Nigeria last week went to the space , launching two satellites into the orbit. August 24, 2011 In "Technology" PRESIDENT Goodluck Jonathan has confirmed the successful launch yesterday of two new satellites by Nigeria. The two facilities are the Nigeriasat-x designed and built by Nigerian engineers and scientists and Nigeriasat-2, which was built in collaboration with international partners August 18, 2011 In "News" SINCE the Minister of Communications, Barrister Adebayo Shittu, went to the Senate to demand approval to acquire two more new satellites, the argument had been if the venture will benefit Nigeria and its citizens. August 30, 2017 In "Technology"