US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Monday urged Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed to end fighting, voicing concern as a military offensive pursued the Tigray region’s dissident leaders. Pompeo in a phone call with Abiy “called for a complete end to the fighting and constructive dialogue to resolve the crisis,” a State Department statement said. The top US diplomat noted Abiy’s declaration that major operations were finished but “reiterated the United States’ grave concern regarding ongoing hostilities and the risks the conflict pose,” it said. Pompeo called for the protection of civilians from harm and “urged the government of Ethiopia to ensure respect for human rights of Tigrayans and all ethnic groups.” The phone call came after Abiy said that Tigray’s leaders had fled west of the regional capital after a weeks-long military operation that the Ethiopian leader — winner of last year’s Nobel Peace Prize — ordered in response to what he said were attacks on federal army camps. Ethiopia is a major US ally but concerns have grown after the fighting left thousands dead and sent tens of thousands of refugees fleeing into Sudan. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria Ethiopia's military said Thursday it was at "war" with the ruling party of the country's northern Tigray region, as fighting continued for a second day and troops reportedly amassed at the region's borders. Heated rhetoric from both sides and fresh violence in western Tigray suggested Africa's second most populous country… November 6, 2020 In "Foreign" US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will make his first trip to sub-Saharan Africa, the State Department said Wednesday, putting a focus on a continent rarely prioritized by the Trump administration. The State Department said that Pompeo will travel to Senegal, Angola and Ethiopia from February 15 to 19, meeting… February 6, 2020 In "Foreign" Secretary of State Mike Pompeo faces an elephant in the room as he heads Friday on a seven-nation trip to US allies -- they have congratulated President-elect Joe Biden on his victory and he most certainly has not. With President Donald Trump refusing to concede and making unsubstantiated claims of… November 13, 2020 In "News"