POLICE in Rivers state have confirmed two persons dead and several others injured as the distribution of Christmas packages by a nongovernmental organisation, INKSNATION, degenerated into a stampede. Spokesman to Rivers State Police Command, SP Nnamdi Omoni, said the tragedy happened Tuesday morning, at an event centre in Rumuodara, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area (LGA) of the state, prompting immediate institution of investigation by Commissioner of Police (CP) Joseph Mukan. Omoni explained, “Palliatives were being distributed by nongovernmental INKSNATION, to her registered members from Ikwerre, Emohua and Obio/Akpor LGAs, when suddenly there was a stampede leading to the death of two people. “Some sustained various degrees of injuries and are currently receiving medical attention. Meanwhile, the situation is under control. ”The CP, Joseph Mukan has instituted immediate probe into the unfortunate incident with a view to ascertaining the circumstances and bringing persons found culpable to justice.” Ibra KY, a participant observer of the development said the casualty figure could rise as several many people who showed up for the package were caught in the stampede as many were in a hurry to access the building and distribution point. Ibra said the rush by the desperate crowd resulted in the stampede as some stepped on others who had fallen in the intense struggle to have a share of the package before it gets exhausted. A viral online video on the development showed some of the victims collapsed, just as others groaned in pains over injuries sustained and yet others intervening to rescue some victims. Vanguard News Nigeria By Egufe Yafugborhi - Port Harcourt The Commissioner of Police (CP), Rivers State Command, Joseph Mukan, says the Police Inspector who shot dead a Keke rider at dawn Thursday in Port Harcourt, faces dismissal and prosecution. CP Mukan in a statement through Rivers Command's Spokesman, SP Nnamdi Omoni, said the… December 10, 2020 In "News" As Okporo Police Station frees detainees, staff disappear By Egufe Yafugborhi Mobs have set ablaze Afam Divisional Police Office in Oyigbo Local Government Area (LGA), Rivers State, hours after hoodlums also razed the Police Area Command, Oyigbo. Rivers Commissioner of Police (CP) Joseph Mukan and Spokesman Nnamdi Omoni, were yet… October 21, 2020 In "SARS Update" By Egufe Yafugborhi POLICE in Rivers State have confirmed the death of a female police Sergent, Lovender Elekwachi, who was shot by a fellow policeman Thursday at Eneka, Obio Akpor Local Government Area (LGA) Nnamdi Omoni, Rivers Police Spokesman, stated Thursday that Elekwachi who hails from Ozuzu, Etche LGA of… April 23, 2020 In "Metro"