Israel’s Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday held talks with Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and called for the opening of missions in each others’ countries, during a visit aimed at boosting ties. Netanyahu last visited Uganda in July 2016 to mark the 40th anniversary of a hostage rescue at Entebbe airport, in which his brother Yonatan died. “There are two things we very much want to achieve… one is direct flights from Israel to Uganda,” Netanyahu told Museveni at a joint press conference. “And second… you open an embassy in Jerusalem, I’ll open an embassy in Kampala,” he added. “We are studying that,” Museveni replied. Traditionally, most diplomatic missions in Israel have been in Tel Aviv as countries maintained a neutral stance over the status of Jerusalem. READ ALSO: Israeli PM Netanyahu in Uganda to boost ties But US President Donald Trump shocked the world in December 2017 by recognising Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and shifting the US embassy from Tel-Aviv to that city. In recent years, Israel has boosted its links with African nations, improving ties following a difficult period when many post-independence African leaders sided with Israel’s Arab rivals and viewed Israel’s support for apartheid, South Africa, with intense suspicion. Israel now has diplomatic relations with 39 of 47 sub-Saharan African states. Netanyahu is on his fifth visit to Africa in less than four years. The continent is a lucrative market for defence equipment and the agriculture sector. As Israeli expertise in military and agricultural technology has developed, the opportunity for trade with Africa has grown. VANGUARD Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu arrived in Uganda on Monday for a meeting with President Yoweri Museveni, on a trip to boost ties with the East African nation. Netanyahu arrived to a rainswept Entebbe airport accompanied by his wife, Sara, before heading to meet Museveni, an AFP photographer said.` Court sentences two… February 3, 2020 In "News" ISRAELI Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu is in Africa this week soaking in accolades on the fortieth commemoration of the Entebbe Raid. The Entebbe story is the stuff of legends. It was presumably, a humanitarian mission to rescue hostages, save innocent lives and give a bloody nose to the air piracy… July 8, 2016 In "Owei Lakemfa" Guatemala opened an embassy in Jerusalem on Wednesday, two days after the U.S. made the same move. May 16, 2018 In "News"