The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, on Tuesday, said the recovered $308 million looted by the late former Head of State, General Sani Abacha will be used on the construction of Lagos – Ibadan Expressway, Abuja – Kano Expressway and the Second Niger bridge. Malami said this in a press statement published on the website of the US Embassy and Consulate in Nigeria on while signing on behalf of the Nigerian government, In Malami’s words, “As you are aware, the government of Nigeria has committed that the assets will support and assist in expediting the construction of the three major infrastructure projects across Nigeria – namely “These projects currently being executed under the supervision of the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority as a public-private partnership (PPP) will boost economic growth and help alleviate poverty by connecting people and supply chains from the East to the West and to the Northern part of Nigeria, a vast area covering several kilometers with millions of the country’s population set to benefit from the road infrastructures.“ The AGF also noted that this agreement has “culminated in a major victory, for Nigeria and other African countries as it recognizes that crime does not pay and that it is important for the international community to seek for ways to support sustainable development through the recovery and repatriation of stolen assets.” He noted further that “without the commitment of the three parties to the Agreement (Nigeria, Jersey and the United States) and that of the legal experts and Attorneys representing Nigeria, it would have been impossible to achieve the success recorded today.” Malami urged for greater cooperation and mutual respect amongst countries in the implementation of expeditious cooperation measures already set out in the United Nations Convention Against Corruption and in the implementation of the GFAR principles on the repatriation of stolen assets. He called for the civil society organizations and the Nigerian public to be involved in the monitoring of the implementation of the key infrastructure projects that will greatly enhance road transportation in the country. Vanguard Nigeria News The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, said on Wednesday the Federal Government is working to repatriate another $321million traced to a former Head of State, late Gen. Sani Abacha. Malami, who disclosed this to State House correspondents at the end of the Federal Executive Council… January 29, 2020 In "News" ...Another euro 6.8m Ibori loot expected ...Dieziani, Aluko too   By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the commencement of the repatriation of stolen assets from the United States. The agreement on the repatriation of looted funds is expected to be signed next week while… January 30, 2020 In "News" Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) has called for a full disclosure of the infrastructural project reportedly funded by repatriated loots. February 4, 2020 In "News"