A 35-year-old mother of two was reportedly shot dead on Saturday at the Yenizue-Gene suburb of Yenagoa, Bayelsa State by an alleged ‘drunk’ naval operative. The victim, a food vendor, was identified as Mrs Chioma Precious Okwuadigbo. According to eyewitnesses, the mother of two met her untimely death in the early hours of the day some distance away from a popular Club along Baybridge road in the heart of the state capital where she was plying her trade. Though it could not be independently confirmed, a source told Vanguard that the deceased was engaged in a heated argument with some uniformed men suspected to be naval operatives when one of them believed to be drunk fired a shot. The bullet was said to have hit the woman, killing her on the spot before any assistance could be rendered. A security source said though some persons at the scene of the crime were invited by the police for interrogation, no arrest had been made. She, however, added that the matter is expected to be transferred to the State CID today (Monday). Meanwhile, the state chapter of the Nigeria Association Of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) has condemned what it described as “the gruesome murder of Mrs, Precious Chioma Okwuadigbo while doing her legitimate business by alleged officers of the Nigerian Navy.” NAWOJ in a statement signed by Mrs Maria Olodi-Osumah and Grace Koinyan, chairperson and secretary respectively said: It is disheartening that Chioma Okwuadigbo at thirty-five years and in her prime, life was snuffed out of her by security operatives who ought to protect her as a Nigerian. “The pain and sorrow caused by the death of Mrs Okwuadigbo cannot be quantified as she left behind two children who still require the nurturing and love of a mother. Despite the fact that the incident had been reported to the police, no arrests have been made…Chioma’s death should not be swept away. “We are therefore calling on the Nigeria Police to as a matter of urgency swing into action by arresting the officers involved, carry out a thorough investigation and ensure that the culprits are brought to book. That is the only way justice will be seen to be served.” Vanguard News Nigeria. WHY four-year-old girl, Testimony Toke Babalola, was reportedly whipped to death by her parents in Akure, Ondo State capital few weeks ago has been unravelled. September 1, 2019 In "Metro" After eight days in captivity, security operatives in a sting operation last night rescued kidnapped 73 year old Madam Florentina Emmanuel, mother of Senator Emmanuel Paulker after a bloody shoot out with her kidnappers. March 4, 2010 In "Latest News" ANGERED by the killing of a military cadet by suspected cultists while trying to rescue a victim of armed robbery attack, weekend, at the Ovom suburb of Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, scores of women, yesterday, took to the streets to protest what they described as the rising cult related killings/crime in… July 11, 2017 In "News"