Soldiers have on Tuesday, faulted the Federal Government over the release of about one thousand , four hundred, (1,400) repentant Boko Haram terrorists, noting that they (Boko Haram) would still go back to their group. The Soldiers who are fiercely fighting insurgency in the North-East, noted with dismay the rationale behind the increase of the terror group. Speaking, Soldiers who confirmed the release of the suspects to TheCable on Tuesday, said they did not understand why suspected Boko Haram members are being released in large numbers. “A lot of soldiers are not happy about this. We were there at the Maimalari barracks when some of these Boko Haram people were released. “The authorities are releasing them, but Boko Haram are killing soldiers that they capture. This does not make sense to us at all. We continue to sweep across the bushes to flush these people out, and then the government will release them. Does that not amount to wasted efforts?” Another soldier said he believes most of the released suspects find their way back to crime. “You wonder why Boko Haram members are on the increase? When we arrest them and bring them here, some top people would come and start negotiating their release. But, I will tell you some of these so-called suspects are returning to the bush and they were never repentant.” Speaking with TheCable on the matter, Onyema Nwachukwu, defence headquarters’ spokesperson, said the releases were in line with Operation Safe Corridor. “We’ve made some releases, that’s the truth. We should know what the operation is about. But take note, it’s not that we capture Boko Haram suspects and then go back and release them. No,” he said. The operation he said is under the direct supervision of the defence headquarters and managed in conjunction with 13 civil organisations. “The civil organisations involved in the operation include UNICEF, International Office on Migration (IOM) and relevant government ministries and security agencies. Not left out of the oversight structure of the operation is the Gombe state govt where the DRR facility is located. As a testimony to the effectiveness of the Safe Corridor initiative, so far, about 800 ex Boko Haram fighters who would have unleashed unimaginable terror on citizens have been admitted and out of which 287 of them have been successfully rehabilitated and reintegrated into society, with many still undergoing the DRR programme,” he said. At the launch of the operation in 2016, the military said the aim is to rehabilitate and reintegrate repentant Boko Haram members back into society. Vanguard The Borno State Government has said about 1,400 repentant Boko Haram suspects have been released by the military and rehabilitated into society. The Borno State Commissioner for Information, Babakura Jato, said during an interview on Monday that 1, 400 had been released in three tranches since the ‘Operation Safe Corridor’… February 11, 2020 In "News" ...Wants them punished like other criminals By Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja Widows of slain military officers and soldiers particularly those fighting the war against terrorism have protested the continuous release of murderous Boko Haram terrorists on the grounds that they have repented. National Vice President of Military Widows Association, Mrs… January 31, 2020 In "News" THE bloodiest attack ever by the “degraded” Boko Haram terror group against our military took place on Monday, November 19, 2018. The evil sect stormed a military base in Metele village, Guzamala Local Government Area of Borno State and left in their trail sorrow, tears and blood. November 27, 2018 In "Candid Notes"