A Chinese scientist was sentenced to two years in prison on Thursday for stealing next-generation battery technology from the American petroleum company where he worked. Hongjin Tan, 36, a Chinese national and permanent legal resident of the United States, was arrested in December 2018 and pleaded guilty in November of last year to stealing trade secrets. US District Court Judge Gregory Frizzell of the Northern District of Oklahoma sentenced Tan to 24 months in federal prison and ordered him to pay $150,000 in restitution to his former employer. The market value of the next-generation battery technology Tan was accused of stealing was more than $1 billion, the Justice Department said in a statement. “This investigation and prosecution uncovered another instance of China’s persistent attempts to steal American intellectual property,” assistant attorney general John Demers said. FBI special agent Melissa Godbold said “American companies invest heavily in advanced research and cutting-edge technology. “Trade secret theft is detrimental to our national security and free-market economy,” Godbold said. “It takes profits away from companies and jobs away from hard-working Americans.” Tan worked as an associate scientist for the US petroleum company from June 2017 until his arrest, the Justice Department said. The department did not name the company but a LinkedIn page for Hongjin Tan identifies him as a staff scientist with the disruptive technologies team at Phillips 66 in Oklahoma. He previously worked as a research assistant and visiting scientist at the California Institute of Technology, where he earned his doctorate. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The biophysicist was guilty of illegal practice in trying to alter the genetic makeup of twins Lula and Nana The scientist who created the world’s first “gene-edited” babies has been sentenced to three years in prison by a court in China. He Jiankui said in November 2018 that he had… December 30, 2019 In "News" A Chinese engineer was charged with stealing secrets from a stealth self-driving vehicle project at Apple, a freshly unsealed criminal complaint revealed. January 31, 2019 In "News" A Chinese court sentenced the scientist who created the world’s first “gene-edited” babies to three years in prison on Monday, according to the official Xinhua news agency, on charges of illegally practicing medicine. He Jiankui, then an associate professor at Southern University of Science and Technology in Shenzhen, said in… December 30, 2019 In "Health"