Alhaji, a stage play by Nollywood veteran, Bimbo Manuel, is themed around the rarely discussed issue of how erectile dysfunction affects men. In the play, Alhaji, the main character, played by Yinka Akanbi, finds he suffers from this ailment and is unable to discuss his medical problem with his three wives or anybody at all for fear of losing face. Bimbo Manuel, the writer of the play, says  Alhaji is a conversation about a serious matter, inviting enthusiasts to come and have a good time at the Terra Kulture Arena in Victoria Island, Lagos. The play, starring Monalisa Chinda-Coker, Hilda Dokubo, Funmi Awelewa, Yinka Aknbi and Bimbo Manuel himself, will show on Sunday, March 1, 2020, and will run every Sunday until the 29th. Alhaji is produced by Joseph Umoibon with Bolanle Austen Peters as executive producer.   Ivorian former football star #DidierDrogba (L) reacts as he attends the funerals ceremony of late Ivorian singer #DJArafat at the Felix Houphouet-Boigny stadium in Abidjan, #IvoryCoast on August 31, 2019. Tens of thousands of fans of Ivorian singer DJ Arafat, star of the hugely popular musical style “coupe-decale” who died this month in a motorbike accident, gave him a spectacular send-off at the country’s main stadium early on August 31. A post shared by  Vanguard News (@vanguardnews) on Aug 31, 2019 at 6:17pm PDT VANGUARD The screening of the blockbuster film, Unbreakable which is scheduled to take place on  21st June 2019, will hold at the University of Port-Harcourt, Rivers State. June 6, 2019 In "News" Nigeria is very proud of the arts and entertainment industry, where talented Nigerians continue to show and exceed world-class performance standards,Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has said. September 22, 2017 In "News" A family-centered musical animation, SADE, is a new Nollywood film that is about to take the Nigerian movie audience through a new delightful experience. While animation genre is a ‘road less-travelled’ in Nigeria, the powerful ensemble of some of Africa’s best actors and singers like King Sunny Ade, Bimbo Manuel, Omowunmi… February 3, 2018 In "Entertainment"