National President of Middle Belt Forum, MBF, Dr. Pogu Bitrus, has stated that the North misused the opportunity of holding onto power for several years with nothing to show for it. He maintained that any insistence to have power retained in the north would not help the north and could equally destroy the entire country. Dr. Pogu Bitrus who made the assertion yesterday in a telephone interview with Vanguard in Makurdi observed that the north was holding onto power as a means to cling on and control the resources of the country. He said Nigeria was in dire need of progressive minds who are conversant with modern leadership acumen to steer the country on the path of good governance. ALSO READ: 9 northern states responsible for 50% malnutrition burden—Emir Sanusi He said “it is unfortunate the north misused the opportunity of it holding on to power. Yes clinging to power to them means clinging to the resources and to control. “Now, because they feel the indices are that they cannot just continue clinging they are creating means of control to hold on to power. It is not helping the north and it is destroying the whole country. “We need brilliant minds, people who are progressive who understand the dynamics of modern transformation and good governance to come to power. “For me, I am not bothered whether the person comes from the north or south but given our circumstances, we have to still rotate till we are able to create the balance required to move this country forward,” Dr. Bitrus stated. Vanguard The leadership of Middle Belt Forum, MBF, has said it agreed with the report of Amnesty International, AI, on the unrestrained mass killings in the Middle Belt, raising an alarm over fresh killings in the region January 15, 2019 In "News" As divergent views and outrage continue to trail the federal government’s decision to declare the recently launched ‘Operation Amotekun’ an illegality, notable leaders in the Middle Belt geopolitical zone, an area that yearly bore the brunt of marauding herdsmen, have declared their support for a replication of the outfit in… January 18, 2020 In "News" The Middle Belt Forum, MBF, disclosed on Tuesday that it is supporting the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar because he had exhibited the intellectual and mental capacity as well as the vitality to address the security challenges in the Middle Belt and the entire… February 19, 2019 In "News"