At least three persons including a pregnant woman have been killed by a car in a local restaurant in Calabar Municipal local government area of Cross River State. The tragic incident occurred on Thursday evening along MCC Road where the victims were having a dinner An eyewitness, Ufonime Akaniyene, who is also a taxi driver, said the driver’s vehicle brake failed and he rammed into the victims, killing three of them on the spot. He said: “The people were eating in the early hours of the night, when a vehicle coming from Mobil drifted from the major road and rammed into them. “At first, we thought it was only the chairs, but when people started pointing their phone lights, we saw blood. “We tried and removed the vehicle, behold we saw about six people greatly hit by the vehicle. Three of them died on the spot while the others sustained major injuries. “One of the salespersons later identified two persons and said they are husband and wife. The wife was heavily pregnant. “The other person was not identified. The driver who was a bit conscious said his brake failed after he was interrogated by the crowd at the scene of the incident.”  Vanguard  A pregnant woman and three other people were killed on Saturday when a vehicle rammed on them at Uselu road on the Ugbowo-Benin highway. A witness said the pregnant woman with three other people who were siblings were killed when an oncoming car skidded off its track and hit them.… October 26, 2019 In "News" CALABAR- IT has become a yearly ritual in Cross River State that during the rainy season, getting to Calabar the state capital or any part of the state by road is usually a herculean task because of the unspeakable condition of the roads. August 29, 2016 In "News" By Ike Uchechukwu No fewer than eight persons have been reported dead after a vehicle lost control and rammed into a market in Ugep, along the Ikom/Calabar Highway in, Yakurr LGA of Cross River state. Vanguard learned that the tragic incident occurred on Tuesday when a Toyota Camry's braking system… January 8, 2020 In "News"