“The protest is 100 per cent good because the protesters are calling for the stoppage of insecurity in Nigeria which is in the interest of all. “I believe the protest is in the interest of Nigerians at large regardless of their religious background. “We all should support them and ensure that the government tackles insecurity.” -Funmilayo Osinowo, Retiree “The protest is a way to sensitise people and task the Federal Government to do the needful because the rate of insecurity has reached an alarming state in the country. “If people like Pastor Adebayo could embark on peaceful protest, it means all of us should be at alert. I don’t see anything wrong with the protest.” -Solesi Ayomide, Communicator “The killings should stop and the Federal Government should get to the root of the killings to ensure the safety of lives and property as a whole. Insecurity should not be tolerated in the country, so, I support the peaceful protest by CAN because we all should feel safe in our motherland.” -Adebayo Lateefat, Student “The scripture teaches Christians to yield to those in authority and at the same time, good governance is needed. If their faith does not permit rebellion or violence against the government, I believe the best option is to call the attention of the government through a peaceful protest which was carried out. “The state of insecurity in the nation cannot be overlooked.” -Babalola Eleazer. Linguist. “It is high time we understand that every life is important and valuable whether Muslim or Christian. Christians taking to a protest shows clearly that killing of innocent people is getting out of hand and CAN, can no longer sit back and keep watching. The protest should ring it in their ears that really families are dying.” -Ogweje Stella. Analyst. “The protest is coming at the moment in which killing of Christians is the order of the day. “If the masses don’t come out in mass to do so, the world won’t know their feelings. So I strongly urge that the protest should continue in order to pour out our grievances towards the killings.” -Jeremiah Agomuo. Student. Vanguard News Nigeria. …Adeboye calls for overhaul of Nigeria’s security infrastructure …leads thousands on 2-km prayer walk … Delta CAN asks for Amotekun in N/Delta …Benue CAN -- We have lost faith in the leadership of this country … Enough of the killings – Lagos CAN … We see nothing wrong in CAN's… February 3, 2020 In "Features" The Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Most Rev. Adewale Martins, has urged the Federal Government to see the ongoing “#RevolutionNow” protest as a wake-up call to address the untold hardship Nigerians were undergoing. August 7, 2019 In "News" ANGRY youths and facilitators of the #RevolutionNow protest, yesterday, defied threats of security agencies to hold demonstrations in four states of the country and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. August 6, 2019 In "Headlines"