Israel’s supreme court on Thursday authorised surrogacy for same-sex couples and single men wishing to have children. Only heterosexual married couples were able to access surrogacy in Israel until 2018, when a law was passed permitting it for single women or those unable to bear children — but not for same-sex couples or single men. “We have won! It’s an emotional day when Israel has finally taken a step towards the advanced countries in the world on rights for LGBT people,” Julien Bahloul, spokesperson for the Association of Israeli Gay Fathers, said in a statement. Bahloul launched an appeal against the law in 2018. “We are happy that the supreme court has made this courageous and just decision,” he added. The court said Thursday that parliament “has 12 months to put an end to the discrimination against same-sex couples and single men”. The decision comes just days before a general election in Israel, a country considered a trailblazer for gay rights but where same-sex relationships remain a taboo among religious conservatives. Parties allied with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, in particular ultra-Orthodox groups, are vehemently opposed to allowing surrogacy for LGBT people and single men. Netanyahu’s main rival Benny Gantz, head of the centrist Blue and White party, said that only a government led by him could put forward a law in line with the supreme court decision. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. That we are in the last days the Bible talked about is no longer in doubt. Everything is turning upside down,” said Timi in the Lagos Island-bound commuter bus. “Oh sure, we are in the last days indeed! It’s like the Devil has taken over the world,” agreed John. July 22, 2015 In "Metro" A gay Singaporean man Monday won the right to adopt a child he fathered via a surrogate in the United States, in a landmark court ruling for the conservative city-state. December 17, 2018 In "News" Obnoxious evil can pass by you unrecognized. A loved relation was brutally dispossessed by death, not once, twice. He lost his sons in succession and mysteriously. August 15, 2015 In "Frank & Fair"