The bodies of Kobe Bryant and his daughter, Gianna, 13, were released to their family members by the Los Angeles County Coroner’s Office, a week after their helicopter went down killing both and seven others in California. The remains of the 41-year-old NBA legend and his daughter, who perished when the helicopter crashed into a hillside in Calabasas, California, on January 26, were returned after confirmation of their identity and a cause of death was determined by investigators, a spokeswoman for the office told DailyMail.com The remains of the pilot, Ara Zobayan, and passengers Christina Mauser, 38, Sarah Chester, 45, and her 13-year-old daughter Payton, also have been released, the spokeswoman confirmed. Passengers John Altobelli, 56, his wife Keri, 46, and their daughter Alyssa, 14, are ready to be released but have not yet been picked up by family members, according to the coroner’s office. John Altobelli, had been a baseball coach at Orange Coast College, and Chester a girls’ basketball coach at Bryant’s Mamba Sports Academy. Vanguard Nigeria News Friends, colleagues and fans mourned Kobe Bryant on Monday as federal investigators sifted through the wreckage of the helicopter crash that killed the basketball legend and eight other people, hoping to find clues to what caused the accident that stunned the world. Kobe Bryant, 41, was traveling Sunday with his… January 28, 2020 In "Sports" By Emmanuel Okogba You cannot be a true follower of the slam-dunk game and not know Kobe Bryant. The LA Lakers and basketball legend had a successful career that spanned two decades, making and breaking records in the process. On January 26, 2020, Bryant and four others were killed in… January 26, 2020 In "Sports" NBA legend who played for Los Angeles Lakers, Kobe Bryant died Sunday in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California. The 41 years old was reported to have been travelling with at least four other people in his private helicopter when it crashed, killing everyone on board. TMZ has confirmed that… January 26, 2020 In "Sports"