Former WBA International, British and Common Wealth Light Heavy Weight Boxing Champion, Peter Oboh, has showered encomiums on his kid-sister, Mable Ohoh, describing her recent involvement in politics as a ‘welcome development and a dream come true.’ Mabel, a seasoned actress and broadcaster was recently appointed as the spokesperson for the Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos chapter of African Democratic Congress,ADC, party. Only yesterday she was also inaugurated as the media Assistant for the party at the state level. The ex-boxing champion said Mabel deserves the appointment as a former broadcaster who has proved his mettle while she was a staff of the Nigerian Television Authority,NTA Channel 7. He expressed optimism that the actress would live up to the responsibility entrusted to her by the leadership of the party. “ I am very proud of her achievements and this will be another milestone for her,” Oboh. A philanthropist and founder, Mabel Oboh Centre for Save Our Star (MOCSO), an NGO, which she established last year to cater to the health needs of Nigerian entertainers, Mable is a woman of substance Hon. Ekanem Idara, leader of ,ADC, Ibeji-Lekki, Lagos State chapter, described Mabel as “a wonderful and hardworking woman,” adding that they chose her to head their media and publicity department because of her rare achievements as a woman of substance. “We have been watching her for some time now. But she did not know because they appointment came to her a surprise. We are aware of her activities in the entertainment industry, and what she is doing with her pet-project, Mabel Oboh Centre for Save our Stars. Her vision is in line with what ADC stands for,” Vanguard Former WBA International, British and Common Wealth Light Heavy Weight Boxing Champion, Peter Oboh has advised pop singer, Timi Dakolo and his wife, Busola to tread with caution while pursuing justice in respect of the rape allegation they levelled against the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, COZA, pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo. July 31, 2019 In "Entertainment" Former WBA International, British and Common Wealth Light Heavy Weight Boxing Champion, Peter Oboh has advised pop singer, Timi Dakolo and his wife, Busola to tread with caution while pursuing justice in respect of the rape allegation they levelled against the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly,COZA, pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo. August 4, 2019 In "News" Former WBA International, British and Common Wealth Light Heavy Weight Boxing Champion, Peter Oboh, has urged Nigerians not to retaliate over the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians and other foreign nationals in South Africa. September 16, 2019 In "Entertainment"