National Chairman,  All Progressives Congress (APC)  Adams Oshiomhole has faulted the Supreme Court judgment declaring the candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Douye Diri as new Governor-elect in Bayelsa. Oshiomhole said this at a news conference in Abuja on Thursday while reacting to the apex court judgment. He said the court would have borrowed a similar case that nullified governorship election in Bauchi. “In 1999, there was a similar case in Bauchi involving Gov. Adamu Muazu. “The court found out that the running mate was not qualified for whatever reason to contest that election and accordingly the supreme court nullified the election of Gov Muazu. “And the court as a consequence directed Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  to conduct a fresh election. “I believe it is still the same supreme court and therefore we have asked our lawyers to exploit all lawful legal windows to ensure that Bayelsa people have a governor of their choice. “Let me also say that it is not a state secret. “If the supreme court has ruled that David Lyon cannot now be sworn in as the person who has the highest number of votes and the spread to be sworn in, it simply means from tomorrow there will be no government in Bayelsa state. “From the facts available to us and in due consultation with our lawyers, it is clear that no candidate meets the requirements of the supreme court which means no one can be sworn in legally tomorrow unless there is deliberate attempt to abuse the legal process,” he said. Vanguard National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday faulted Friday’s ruling of the Supreme Court which sacked all candidates elected on APC ‘s platform during the last general elections. May 28, 2019 In "News" By Dirisu Yakubu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Monday, reiterated its confidence in the possibility of the Supreme Court to reverse its decision on the Imo state governorship election. The apex court, it would be recalled, had last week nullified the election of Emeka Ihedioha and directed the Independent… January 20, 2020 In "Politics" The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress(APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has declared the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Senator Douye Diri cannot be sworn in on Friday as Bayelsa Governor because he did not meet the requirements of the Supreme Court. At an ongoing press conference, Oshiomhole… February 13, 2020 In "Politics"