United Nations chief Antonio Guterres Thursday called for an end to gender inequality which he said: “should shame us all in the 21st century because it is not only unacceptable, it is stupid.” Comparing it to past “stains” of slavery and colonialism, he said discrimination against women and girls remained a major problem around the world. “From the ridiculing of women as hysterical or hormonal to the routine judgement of women based on their looks; from the myths and taboos that surround women’s natural bodily functions to mansplaining and victim-blaming –- misogyny is everywhere,” he said at an event at The New School university in New York. “It is time to stop trying to change women, and start changing the systems that prevent them from achieving their potential,” the UN head said. “The 21st century must be the century of women’s equality.” Ending the gender pay gap and repealing laws that discriminate against women and girls were just two of the areas the UN was targeting, the secretary general noted. “We must urgently transform and redistribute power, if we are to safeguard our future and our planet. That is why all men should support women’s rights and gender equality. And that is why I am a proud feminist.” As of January 1 this year, the UN achieved gender parity across its senior-most ranks and has pledged to extend this across all levels by 2028. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. As the world marked  the International Day for Elimination of Violence against Women yesterday,  United Nations Secretary General, Mr António Guterres, has called for collective global action on the issue of violence against women, saying achieving gender equality and  full empowerment of women is the answer to ending violence against… November 26, 2017 In "News" UN Secretary-General António Guterres says Africa remains a continent of hope in spite of the obvious crises and underdevelopment currently ravaging the region. February 4, 2017 In "News" UN Secretary-General António Guterres says Africa remains a continent of hope in spite of the obvious crises and underdevelopment currently ravaging the region. February 4, 2017 In "News"