The convener of Concerned Nigerians, Prince Deji Adeyanju has disclosed some charges the Federal government dropped against the Convener of #Revolution now Protest, Mr.  Omoyele Sowore. The charges include: Money laundering and Cyberstalking. Recall that FG had accused Sowore of conspiracy to commit treason and insulting President Muhammadu Buhari. The Department of State Service, DSS, added Sowore’s crime to include treasonable felony and defamation of the president. Mr Sowore was arrested in August for planning a nationwide protest he tagged, ‘RevolutionNow’. The Buhari administration said the planned demonstration was a treasonable act because it was aimed at fomenting a regime change. READ ALSO: NEWS EXTRA: Omoyele Sowore nominated for U.S Prisoner Of Conscience Honour Mr Sowore denied the allegations, saying his campaign was to mobilise teeming Nigerian youth to denounce poverty, insecurity and other national challenges assailing the country. On February 12, 2020, Court resumed Sowore’s trial. Dissatisfied with the action of the Federal government, an Abuja Federal High Court led by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, awarded a fine of N200, 000 against FG for relying on a frivolous reason to seek an adjournment of Omoyele Sowore’s trial. However, Deji via his facebook handle disclosed that the Federal Government has today filed a fresh charge against Sowore. The charge as quoted by Deji is “an attempt to pull down Buhari’s government”. See quote below:  Vanguard Deji Adeyanju, the convener of pro-democracy and good governance group, Concerned Nigerians; Ariyo Dare Atoye of Concerned Nigerians, Coalition in Defence of Nigerian Democracy and Constitution and Adebayo Raphael of Free Nigeria Movement, alongside several other comrades, have said that the groups are set to stage a one-million man protest… August 13, 2019 In "News" The convener of Concerned Nigerians, and human rights activist, Prince Deji Adeyanju, has on Tuesday apologized to the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu over the statement he made against him. December 24, 2019 In "News" ...to decide their bail request Friday  By Ikechukwu Nnochiri ABUJA---The Federal High Court in Abuja, on Monday, ordered that the convener of RevolutionNow protest, Mr. Omoyele Sowore should be remanded in custody of the Department of State Service, DSS, till Friday when it will hear his bail application. Trial Justice… September 30, 2019 In "News"