POISED to flaunt the salient features and Japanese technology of Suzuki vehicles in Nigeria, CFAO Motors, has commenced an open day event in collaboration with partner banks. The purpose of the event, according to the company, is to entertain bank customers and staff in the Suzuki Akin Adesola Showroom with the opportunity for prospective customers to get a feel of the products and get enlightened on the ongoing Suzuki financing offers. The open day which kicked off two weeks ago will subsequently hold every Thursday for the next couple of weeks. Most of the top Nigerian banks have already scheduled their open days with Suzuki. The newly introduced Suzuki brand is currently making waves with the introduction of its finance scheme which enables customers to purchase Suzuki vehicles with as little as N3.7m or N87,000 monthly payment. CFAO Motors also accepts any brand of vehicle for trade-in as equity, and offers free fuelling and free service for first year of purchase. The models available in Nigeria cut across compact cars, sedans and sport utility vehicles with the Alto, Dzire, Swift, Baleno, Ciaz, Ertiga, Vitara and Jimny. Vanguard By Theodore Opara DETERMINED to offer its customers a wide range of affordable quality cars, frontline auto distributor, CFAO Motors, has kick-started the distribution of Suzuki vehicles in Nigeria. Managing Director of CFAO Motors/CFAO Country Delegate, Mr. Thomas Pelletier, stated that his company took over the Suzuki car franchise to… June 7, 2019 In "Motoring" SUZUKI cars, one of Japan's renowned auto brands have been formally launched into the Nigerian market by CFAO Motors. The launch, which was well attended by dignitaries, including the Ambassador of Japan to Nigeria, Kikuta Yutaka, also witnessed the opening of a befitting showroom for the Suzuki car models on… November 29, 2019 In "Motoring" IN a bid to ease new car ownership for Nigerians, CFAO Motors, the sole distributor of Suzuki cars in Nigeria, has unveiled its vehicle trade-in scheme. January 31, 2020 In "Motoring"