By Egufe Yafugborhi Rivers State Task Force Against Illegal Street Trading/Illegal Motor Parks/Illegal Mechanics has denied killing a bureau de change agent during its Tuesday’s alleged raid on GRA Junction/Rumuola axis of Port Harcourt. The victim was confirmed dead following alleged harassment and beating by men of the agency, who had raided the GRA Junction and Hotel Presidential neighbourhood of Port Harcourt, a beehive of teeming black market operators of currency exchange. ALSO READ: Pandemonium as taskforce allegedly hack currency trader to death in Rivers Bright Amaehwule, Chairman of the agency, in a statement on Wednesday, said: “Rivers State Government did not initiate the task force to kill any of her citizens, rather it is aimed at restoring sanity and standard way of living among its citizens. “Therefore, the task force dissociates itself from information being peddled by those who seek to defame the Rivers State Government in such a negative manner. “The state government has already swung into action to actually know the cause of his death. We urge all to be law-abiding citizens to continue with their normal activities, as everything is under control.” Vanguard By Egufe Yafugborhi, Port-Harcourt The Rivers State Taskforce against Illegal Street Trading/Illegal Motor Parks/Illegal Mechanics has denied killing a bureau de change agent during Tuesday's alleged raid on GRA Junction/Rumuola axis of Port Harcourt. The victim was confirmed dead following alleged harassment and beating by men of the taskforce who… February 26, 2020 In "News" Port Harcourt was thrown into disarray as a man, was allegedly beaten to death by men of the state task force on street. The man whose identity was not confirmed was trading, illegal markets and motor parks. The man was suspected to be a Bureau de change operator near the… February 26, 2020 In "News" By Davies Iheamnachor - Port Harcourt There was pandemonium,  around GRA junction on Aba-Port Harcourt expressway, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, when men of State's Taskforce Committee on Street Trading reportedly hacked a currency trader to death. It was gathered the Rivers State Taskforce on Road Decongestion and Street Trading had… February 26, 2020 In "News"