Power solutions company, Bhojsons Powerhub, has just introduced Amaze Power Back Up solution into the Nigerian market. The company said the solution will offer Nigerians cutting age power back up in inverters and batteries to provide alternative to grid power supply. Group Managing Director of the company, Mr. Vishant Dalamal said that Amaze Inverters and batteries are one of the best-in-class Power Back Up solutions in its segment with a pedigree of over 30 years of manufacturing excellence and category experience. He explained that the Amaze brand offers customers the best quality power solutions using cutting edge technology in a complete package that guarantees maximum performance. He said: “Amaze Power products are designed for young achievers who demand more in their lives. Amaze delivers more performance, more reliability, more attractive designs with consistent power, and the assurance of quality of global manufacturing standards and after sales service across Nigeria. “The brand also has one of the most interesting aesthetic designs from France with a smooth sophisticated architecture and refined edges.” he added. Earlier in his address, Mr. Dalamal expressed gratitude to the dealers for their immense support and contributions, which he said have seen the company grow over the years despite operational challenges in the power sector. Also, the Business Unit Head of the company, Mr. Rajneesh Gupta said that Amaze offers a technologically advanced Power Back Up solution that meets the yearnings and Power Back up needs of Nigerians. Gupta said: “Customers in Nigeria truly deserve a comforting experience. With Amaze, a lot of money will be saved on diesel and petrol, generator repairs and other agonies that often come with the regular power outage experienced in Nigeria.” VANGUARD Eco Multi Solutions Ltd, has introduced the world’s latest power inverter technology into the Nigerian market. The brand is called Digital Signal Processor(DSP) is designed to ensure that inverter happens in microseconds such that users computer systems will not have to reboot and it also has inbuilt SMPS charger with… October 3, 2010 In "Finance" To ensure that it meets the desires of its esteemed consumers LG came up with the advanced all new  Gencool  Air conditioner with Dual Inverter technology, this is in its determination to offer Nigerians a cutting edge technology especially consumers seeking Energy efficient products. March 4, 2018 In "Technology" AS the poor power situation in the country bites harder on citizens, home appliance manufacturers are taking advantage. For instance, LG, Electronics has just recently introduced a 5-star rated frost-free Evercool smart inverter refrigerator. The product’s unique feature is the inverter, solar panel and ability to work with small capacity… July 6, 2016 In "News"