  ABUJA: Alliance for New Nigeria, ANN, one of the political parties de-registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has said the action of the electoral umpire was illegal as it contravened the provisions of the 1999 Constitution. The party said through its National Publicity Secretary, Akinloye Oyeniyi, in a statement issued in Abuja, that the Constitution is bigger than all organs and agencies of government which INEC is one. According to him, “INEC lied by saying it acted based on the Section 225 of the Constitution because that section actually have in it that until all elections from the office of the president to that of the councillors in the 774 local governments and area councils are concluded, no political party can be deregistered. “We know INEC is acting a script and is aware a court ruling will be coming on the 17th of this month, hence this illegality. The constitutional provisions are very clear; and we are in the electoral process in states organising their council polls to fulfil this provisions. The question now is why would INEC carry out the illegality in contravention of the constitution. “We are appealing to our teeming members and supporters to remain calm, the party is putting all in its disposal in motion to protect and sustain their constitutional rights to belong to a political party of their choice and freedom of association.” The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Thursday deregistered 74 out of 92 registered political parties in the country. Announcing the de-registration in a press briefing in Abuja, INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu said they were deregistered for their inability to fulfil requirements for existence based on Section 225A of… February 6, 2020 In "News" Retains Accord, PDP, APC, others Fixes Edo Guber for Sept. 19, Ondo Oct. 10 By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has deregistered 74 out of Nigeria's 92 political parties for their lackluster performance in the 2019 general elections. Some of the deregistered parties include All… February 6, 2020 In "Politics" The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, on Thursday, exercised its constitutional powers to deregister political parties that failed to meet established criteria February 7, 2020 In "News"