Having condemned the isolation room given to him, due to poor ventilation and  mosquito bites, the Lagos state government has on Saturday transferred the forty-four year-old Italian man to a better facility. Disclosing this, Lagos commissioner of health, Akin Abayomi, who appeared on a show on Arise Akin admitted that the Italian man complained about the previous facility, saying he (Italian man) said he is now comfortable in his new ward. Recall that the patient had threatened to escape, after complaining of mosquito bites and hot weather. In view of that, Lagos state government acted fast, and moved him in a renovated facility, that is better than the other previous one. Read what Akin Abayomi said: “I saw him at about 6pm yesterday. He was explaining his condition and we were taking some new data from him. “He’s in an isolation room all by himself and we had moved him into a particular room because we were doing a general overhaul of the whole facility because we want to be ready. “There were some discomforts in terms of heat, but about 9pm we moved him over to the renovated facility which has lots of air conditioners, fans and it’s a 28 bed brand new facility, and he’s there on his own in the whole ward and as of 6am this morning I’m told he’s comfortable.” “We’ve been building a bio security unit that includes advanced diagnostic capacity. We’ve been building isolation wards which have special air flow dynamics,” he said. Vanguard Irked by the alleged poor condition of the isolation room given to him, the forty-four (44) year-old Italian man, yesterday threatened to escape the centre. February 29, 2020 In "News" In a near replay of the July 20, 2014 Ebola Virus Disease episode when Liberian Patrick Sawyer imported the Ebola virus into the country undetected through the Muritala Mohammed International Airport, MMIA, an Italian national has imported the COVID-19 virus into the country through the same airport on February 25th… February 29, 2020 In "Health" By Olasunkanmi Akoni, Lagos Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi has narrated how the patient with the index case of COVID -19 got into the state and efforts put in place to prevent further spread of the case. It was gathered that the patient is a consultant with… February 28, 2020 In "Health"