The Edo State Skills Development Agency (EdoJobs) and Africa Magic have entered into a partnership for the production of a new Television series that will draw talents from the state’s growing film industry. Managing Director, EdoJobs, Mrs Ukinebo Dare, in a chat with journalists, said the partnership will birth a telenova series that will be produced by Africa Magic with 60 per cent of the crew sourced from Edo State. According to her, “We are excited about the partnership with Africa Magic. On the new TV series, we will be working with the producers of Hotel Majestic and will tap from the talents of our youths for the new production. “It follows from the Edo Creative Industry stakeholder session held last year, which has birthed this great entrant into Edo State. A lot more filmmakers are shooting in Edo state this year.” She said audition for the series would hold from February 20th to 21th at the Edo Innovation Hub, ICE Road, Benin City. She added that the initiative is part of the Edo Creative Hub offerings, which aims to groom and productively engage Edo youths for opportunities in Nigeria’s thriving film industry. She noted, “We have sealed the partnership already and are excited that this idea has come to fruition. We have a lot more partnership in the film industry that we will be unveiling soon. “We are confident that this partnership will yield even more opportunities for the talents to be discovered to go and do exploits on the national and global stages.” Vanguard Nigeria News …to benefit from distribution, exhibition deals with IrokoTV, Kada Cinemas After intense training in the art of filmmaking, 10 young filmmakers have emerged winners in the ‘pitch, win and shoot’ competition organised by the Edo Creative Hub, an initiative of the Edo State Skills Development Agency (EdoJobs) in collaboration with… January 13, 2020 In "News" To fast-track employment creation for youths in Edo State, the state government will  launch EdoJobs 2.0, the second phase of its skills development programme in  March  this year . March 1, 2018 In "News" As part of efforts to develop indigenous solutions to society’s problems, EdoJobs, in partnership with WeAreBits, a global Information Technology (IT) company, have completed a two-day co-creation workshop to map out the peculiar needs that will influence a one-year training for Edo youths on the use of Information and Communication… August 23, 2018 In "News"