Two policemen have been shot dead by some unknown gunmen at a checkpoint along Ode Irele -Ajagba Road, in Irele council area of Ondo state.
However the identities of the deceased policemen were not revealed by the state police command. But vanguard gathered that one of the deceased policeman was Ola Asogbon. Sources said that the the suspected killers were militants that have been terrorising the people in the area of the state in recent time over the alleged non settlement by the Amnesty office after surrendering their weapons. Vanguard gathered that the killers met the policemen at the checkpoint Monday and allegedly opened fire on them, killing two and injured one. But another source said that the suspected militants were protesting their exclusion from amnesty. They were said to be protesting and I sister that they needed their guns back to be able to go back to business. It was gathered that the injured policeman was immediately rushed to an hospital in the area for medical attention. Police lmage maker Femi Joseph however confirmed the killing of two policemen by unknown gunmen. Joseph, who described the killing as unfortunate said the command was on the trail of the bandits ” We lost two of our men on duty on Monday, but we don’t know who the killers are yet , whether they are armed robbers or militants or some thugs, it is when we arrest them that they tell us who they are. ” But it is very sad and unfortunately for the command, losing our men just like that. Joseph said that investigation had commenced assuring that “we will do everything to get the bandits arrested and face the wrath of the law.” vanguard A couple were knocked down and killed by a drunken driver of a a Toyota Camry car in Ode Irele, Irele Local Govnment area of Ondo State. December 3, 2014 In "News" A couple were knocked down and killed by a drunken driver of a Toyota Camry car in Ode Irele, Irele Local Government Area of Ondo State. December 3, 2014 In "News" The bloodbath in Rivers State continued, yesterday, as five persons were killed in attacks by suspected cultists in different parts of the state. The state high court premises in Port Harcourt also came under attack. May 11, 2016 In "Headlines"