The Edo State Government has condemned the use of explosives and other dangerous weapons at the weekend by some politicians in parts of the state to cause mayhem, endangering the lives of law-abiding citizens of the state in the process. In a statement, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, described the dastardly act as reprehensible and most condemnable. According to Osagie, “the shameful resort to violence is the next move of some politicians and their cohorts in the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) to create tension in the state with the intent of forcing the authorities to declare a State of Emergency in Edo State.” He restated the state government’s commitment to the peace and safety of Edo people, warning that intent on exacerbating tensions in the state to steer clear. The statement reads: “It has come to our notice that explosives and other dangerous weapons were used by some politicians in parts of the state to cause mayhem, endangering the lives of law-abiding citizens of the state in the process. “The Edo State Government denounces the resort to such desperate and dangerous means for political reasons. This is reprehensible and most condemnable. It runs against the creed of our people to conduct their affairs in a peaceful manner; worse still, employing destructive means in politics is alien to Edo people” It continued, “Intelligence reports available to us indicate that this is the next move by some politicians and their cohorts in the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) to create tension in the state with the intent of forcing the authorities to declare a State of Emergency in Edo State.” The state government further charged the Presidency and the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to call Comrade Oshiomhole to order so that the destructive descent to violence does not erode the good legacies that have been built over the years by the APC in Edo State. Vanguard The Edo State Government has berated the suspended National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole over plots to disrupt peace and safety in the state, noting that his schemes have taken a dangerous dimension. In a statement, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication… January 31, 2020 In "Politics" By Ozioruva Aliu, Benin City The Chairman, Edo State All Progressives Congress (APC), Col David Imuse (rtd) has raised alarm that suspected thugs have been brought into the state to unleash attack on him as he plans to resume in the state Secretariat of the party following the ratification of… November 17, 2019 In "News" Ahead the 2020 governorship election in Edo state, the crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo state is heightening and as it seems no solution is on sight. The crisis took another dimension October 5, 2019 when armed thugs allegedly attacked the GRA residence of the National Chairman… November 2, 2019 In "News"