Former senator, representing Anambra Central, Sir Victor Umeh, has regretted the demise of parents of leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra(IPOB) Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, HRH, Eze Israel, saying it is a emotion provoking event. Senator Umeh who was speaking during the  burial of the  traditional  ruler of Afara Ukwu community, Abia state urged Ndigbo  to bear the loss with fortitude noting that death was a phenomenon every man  should look forward to. He also commended the federal government for ensuring that the burial was peaceful. “We have come here to join the Afara Ukwu people Abia State and indeed Ndigbo to bury the traditional ruler of Afara Ukwu, Mazi Israel Kanu and his beloved wife. “Today, according to our custom and tradition, it necessary for those who are alive to bury the dead not only that but today we are burying a great man, a king, a community leader and a Night of the Christian Church. So you can see it is an emotion provoking event. “We also come to commiserate with the leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and his siblings and all the other relations to ask them to bear this double tragedy with fortitude and with God’s grace. I pray that God will grant them eternal rest in paradise. READ ALSO: Amotekun: We have sworn to work with Yoruba leaders, Nnamdi Kanu backs South-West govs “To the Afara Ukwu community, brothers and friends of Nnamdi Kanu, they must see it as something that must come in life and submit to the will of God. “We commend the federal government for allowing us to bury our brother and sister and IPOB for organising themselves in a peaceful manner as they used to be”, he said. Umeh further commended IPOB members for not yielding to media threats aimed at discouraging them from attending the burial. Vanguard With the threat by Mr Ene Okon, Abia Commissioner of Police, that the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, should steer clear from burial of Kanu’s parents, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, Tuesday warned Nigerian Police not to taste the wrath of the group. February 11, 2020 In "News" Soldiers have purportedly barricaded the entrance of the family OF Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB. February 13, 2020 In "News" THE Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, has replied Governor Okezie Ikpeazu over the alleged comments in an interview he granted to BBC Igbo Service in the Government House Umuahia that, its leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu reneged on the agreement the South East Governors reached with him. February 22, 2018 In "News"