The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ibrahim Pantami  says the issues of VAT, does not fall under the Ministry’s purview and as such can’t intervene on the complaints by the public on the new tax regime on voice calls and SMS. The minister in a statement on Thursday signed by his spokesperson, Mrs. Uwa Suleiman, stated that his office has been inundated with complaints and enquiries concerning the recent 7.5% VAT deductions on voice calls and text messages, by some Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) but regretted that he could not intervene since the issues does not fall under his purview. Contrary to popular opinion in some quarters, the  Minister said he had no prior consultation or awareness about the development and urged that all further enquiries and clarifications may henceforth be directed to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), being the proper institution for tax matters. The statement reads, “The office of the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami) has been inundated with complaints and enquiries concerning the recent 7.5% VAT deductions on voice calls and text messages, by some Mobile Network Operators (MNOs). “While we appreciate the support and efforts of well meaning Nigerians who have sought clarifications in a civil manner, we wish to inform the general public that the issues of VAT, do not fall under the Ministry’s purview. The office of the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy is not mandated to handle VAT. “In the same vein, we also wish to notify the general public that contrary to popular opinion in some quarters, the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy had no prior consultation or awareness about the development. All further enquiries and clarifications may henceforth be directed to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), being the proper institution for tax matters.” The Minister however, assured all Nigerians that under his leadership, the interest of all Nigerians will be protected. Vanguard Minister of Communications and digital Economy Dr. Isa Ibrahim Pantami says he directed the Post Master General of Nigerian Postal Services to with immediate effect, suspend all existing cash payment plans within its establishments nationwide to avoid corruption. November 8, 2019 In "News" Targets 95% digital literacy in 10yrs By Emmanuel Elebeke Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Mallam Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami) has condemned the move by Federal Inland Revenue Service, FIRS to collect Stamp Duties, saying that the collection remains the sole responsibility of Nigerian Postal Service, NIPOST. The Minister spoke… January 3, 2020 In "News" The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami) has reiterated government’s commitment to realize a minimum of 70% Broadband Penetration in Nigeria by 2025. February 5, 2020 In "News"