One of the two brothers paraded, Thursday, by Kogi State Police Command for car theft said he started snatching cars in December 2019 when he woke up to a strange sound urging him to go for stealing. The two brothers, Idris Bello, 26, and Nafiu Bello, 28, are said to be specialists in snatching exotic cars in Kogi State. One of the brothers, Idris, who claimed to be a farmer, said he started snatching cars in December 2019 when he woke up to a strange sound urging him to go for car-snatching business. He added that from the day he heard the voice, he started to recruit some of his friends, including his elder brother, Nafiu, for the new vocation of snatching cars with his English-made pistols. ALSO READ:I didn’t appoint 118-yr-old as special adviser, says Bayelsa LG Vice Chair(Opens in a new browser tab) Parading the suspects, the state Police Commissioner, Ede Ayuba, said: “The trio of Mohammed Yahaya, Idris Bello and Nafiu Bello, who were terrorising the people of Lokoja and its environs before their arrest on December 18, 2019, had snatched Toyota Sienna, Toyota Corolla, Toyota Camry, Ford Explorer and a Michael Kor Wristwatch, which they disposed to their accomplices as car dealers in Kaduna. “The discreet investigation carried out by my operatives led to the recovery of these vehicles and a locally and English made pistols with six live ammunition. “Another suspect, Monday Shaibu, 30, was nabbed for using military camouflage to dispossess Okada riders of their motorcycles around Anyigba and its environs.” The police boss said the command had designed a template to contain crimes, identified black spots with a strategic plan that has resulted in the harvest of the arrest of criminals across the state. “After adopting a scientific approach to fighting crimes, we have also enshrined a common problem-solving mechanism of community policing that has given confidence to the people, who willingly divulge credible information to the police,” he said. Vanguard NO doubt about it, they were still amateur in the illicit game of armed robbery. Two brothers ,Olubunmi Ojo and Adekunle Ojo who were paraded alongside 27 other criminals by the Ondo Police Command were just learning the rope and according to them this was their first outing. South West… March 5, 2015 In "News" The Plateau State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Chris Olakpe recently paraded suspects said to belong to a 24-member criminal gang that specializes in snatching cars and driving them across the border to dispose. He disclosed that about 18 cars were recovered from them. Crime Alert spoke to two of the… June 19, 2013 In "Crime Alert" The Police Command in Kaduna State , yesterday, paraded 40 suspects for alleged robbery, kidnapping, cattle rustling and car snatching. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Adamu Ibrahim said 20 of the suspects including two Nigeriens and two women, belonged to gangs that specialized in robbery and car snatching. May 26, 2016 In "News"