The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives caucus has supported calls by the party’s hierarchy for the review of the Supreme Court judgement on the presidential election and four governorship polls. Caucus Leader, Rep. Kingsley Chinda made the caucus position known in a statement issued on Wednesday in Abuja. Apart from the presidential election, the governorship polls the House caucus wants the Apex court to revisit are those of Kaduna, Katsina, Kano and Osun states. Declaring its support for the party’s demand for the review of the Supreme Court rulings, the caucus said it predicated its action on the request by the All Progressives Congress (APC) asking the Supreme Court to review its judgement on the Bayelsa governorship election. “We take cognizance of the fact that some Supreme Court justices and indeed, other judges, as well as judicial officers, have in the past suffered assaults, both formally and informally under the supervision of the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. “Cognizant of the fact the Supreme Court infallibility is hinged on it’s finality, and not because it’s personnel (justices) are infallible, we reaffirm our faith and confidence in the judiciary, particularly, the Supreme Court which is still the only hope of the common man. “Consequently, we express our unalloyed support for the leadership of our great party, the PDP, and hereby call for a review by the Supreme Court of all its earlier judgements,” the caucus declared. vanguard Nigeria News A Caucus of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the House in Representatives, has suggested the appointment of Justices Ibrahim Tanko, Rhodes-Vivour, Mary Odili, Sylvester Ngwata, Olukayode Ariwoola, Musa Mohammed and Kumai Akaahs to hear and determine the appeal filed by the PDP Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar challenging the judgement… October 17, 2019 In "News" The South West Zone of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) has expressed disappointment over Wednesday’s verdict of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal. September 12, 2019 In "News" The Minority Caucus of the House of Representatives said yesterday that it was unfazed by the judgment of the Supreme Court on the petition by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, on the February 23 presidential election. October 30, 2019 In "News"