Five out of the 11 Councilors elected on the platform of the All Progress Congress (APC) in Gusau local government area of Zamfara have defected to the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. This was contained in a statement signed by Yusuf Idris, the Director-General of Media, Public Enlightenment and Communication to Gov. Bello Matawalle and made available to journalists in Gusau on Monday. Those who announced their defection which took place at the governor’s private residence in Gusau include Shehu Isa of Sabon Gari ward, Abdulhamid Sani of Ruwan Bore ward, Ibrahim Kogo of Wonaka ward, Yahaya Aliyu of Madawaki ward and Shamsu Umar representing Rijiya ward. Idris said the decision of the councillors to defect was borne out of the improved security, successes recorded in decimating banditry and spread of development projects in their areas by the PDP administration under Gov. Matawalle. READ ALSO: Lassa Fever: NYSC sensitises corps members on preventive measures in Zamfara “Since politics is about development and meeting the yearnings of the electorate, and that the governor is transforming the state, especially Gusau, their constituents will be happy if they identify with such noble successes,” the statement added. “All the councillors who were presented to the governor by the state PDP Chairman, Alhaji Ibrahim Mallaha assured of their unflinching loyalty to the leadership of Matawallen Maradun so that the state will continue to move higher. “Also speaking at the occasion, the PDP Chairman of Gusau local government, Alhaji Sanusi Sarki described the councillors’ defection as an indication of the acceptance and the confidence the people have in the leadership of the PDP administration in the state as being piloted by Gov Bello Matawalle,” Yusuf said. He said that the governor thanked the councillors for joining his party and promised to treat them equally with other members. The governor urged the newcomers to always give him meaningful advises in running the government. He also assured them that he would not relent in bringing more dividends of democracy to the state for the benefits of the citizens. (NAN) VANGUARD Eight out of the 14 Local Government Area Council chairmen on the platform of the  All Progressives Congress (APC), in Zamfara, have announced their defection to the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). February 8, 2020 In "Politics" Eight out of the 14 Local Government Area Council chairmen on the platform of the  All Progressives Congress (APC), in Zamfara  have announced their defection to the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). This was contained in a statement signed by Zailani Bappa, Special Adviser (Media) to Gov. Bello Matawalle and… February 8, 2020 In "Politics" Alhaji Ahmad Abubakar, the suspended chairman of Maradun Local Government in Zamfara, says he is not among the local government bosses that recently defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), recalls that Malam Jamilu Iliyasu, Press Secretary to… February 9, 2020 In "Politics"