Britain’s finance minister, Sajid Javid, resigned on Thursday, just weeks after Brexit and a month before he was due to deliver the government’s annual budget. Javid’s spokesman confirmed he would be leaving just as Prime Minister Boris Johnson carried out the first reshuffle of his cabinet since winning a parliamentary majority in December’s election. The domestic Press Association news agency quoted an unnamed source close to Javid as saying Johnson wanted him to sack his team of aides but he refused. “He has turned down the job of Chancellor of the Exchequer,” the source said. “The prime minister said he had to fire all his special advisers and replace them with Number 10 special advisers to make it one team. “The chancellor said no self-respecting minister would accept those terms.” Javid’s resignation came after Johnson replaced Northern Ireland minister Julian Smith, in a surprise move just weeks after he brokered the restoration of power-sharing government in Belfast. It follows weeks of rumours about tensions between the Treasury and the premier’s closest adviser, Dominic Cummings, who has promised a shake-up of government operations. Javid, 50, is a former high-flying banker who moved into politics, serving as interior minister before replacing Philip Hammond as chancellor of the exchequer in July last year. Hammond locked horns with Johnson’s predecessor Theresa May over her Brexit strategy. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Britain on Friday named Andrew Bailey, head of the Financial Conduct Authority regulator, as governor of the Bank of England to help guide the economy through any Brexit fallout. "I am delighted to announce that the next governor of the Bank of England will be Andrew Bailey," said finance minister… December 20, 2019 In "Business" Britain’s plan to raise the minimum wage to two-thirds of median earnings, taking it to 10.50 pounds (13.58 dollars) an hour, was endorsed by an independent review on Monday that found setting a floor on pay had a negligible effect on job creation. Companies are now likely to see wage… November 4, 2019 In "Foreign" Boris Johnson arrived at Buckingham Palace on Wednesday to formally take up his duties as Britain's new prime minister after Theresa May tendered her resignation, AFP reporters saw. July 24, 2019 In "News"