Against the backdrop of the recent downtime and disruption of internet service occasioned by the cuts in submarine cable, 4G LTE broadband service provider, Smile Nigeria, has commended cable providers MainOne and Globacom for their supports which helped in swiftly overcoming the challenges. Smile said both companies offered it quick delivery of additional capacity required during the recent, West African Cable System, WACS submarine fibre cut. Group CEO of Smile Communications, Ahmad Farroukh noted the huge demand for internet protocol, IP capacity from other operators in Nigeria during the unfortunate incident. Farroukh said: “We should learn from the recent, WACS and SAT3 cable cuts that resulted in the disruption of internet services in the country”. Farroukh however challenged the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy and the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, to facilitate an environment where all Nigerian and Non-Nigerian cable providers will have active redundancy on each other so that consumers will not be impacted negatively in case of a similar occurrence in the future. He said: “For example, if submarine cable X was subject to a cut, other cables existing in Nigeria should be able to carry on the lost capacity without negatively impacting the end-users. “Smile, renowned for the primacy of its customer’s service, regretted any inconvenience caused by the slight disruption in its service rendition in some areas and assured all its stakeholders that their best interest remains upmost in all its consideration.” VANGUARD MTN Nigeria, last week, entered the submarine cable competition going on in Nigeria today, joining ten other countries of the world in an agreement that would usher in West African Cable Systems, WACS. October 25, 2009 In "Mobile Week with GSM" One of Africa’s leading communications services and data centre providers, Mainone Company recently announced the completion of the upgrade of its submarine cable network between Nigeria, Ghana and Portugal to a 100G wavelength system. November 18, 2015 In "Technology" Nigeria’s road to ubiquitous broadband regime is getting shorter. This is as the country has experienced additional broadband capacity from the level injected by MainOne , Glo1 and SAT3 submarine cables with the announcement that MTN -facilitated West African Cable System, WACS, has started carrying traffic. July 9, 2012 In "Finance"