Nigeria is to revitalize relations with the Republic of Korea towards attaining formidable strategies in the fight against insurgency. Minister of Defence, Maj. Gen. Bashir Salihi Magashi (Rtd.) stated this while receiving in audience the Korean Ambassador Mr. Intae Lee in his  office, in Abuja. Gen. Magashi reiterating the long standing relationship with the Republic of Korea said that both countries have shared experiences in Human Capital and Development. “To further strengthen the relationship, both countries are currently drafting a Memorandum of Understanding that would strengthen ties on Defence Administration and security matters” the minister said. The minister is hopeful that Nigeria would utilize the Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON) in Kaduna as a window for transfer of Technology in Military Hardware from Korea Republic. In his remark, the Korean Ambassador to Nigeria, Intae Lee expressed satisfaction with President Buhari’s handling of the security challenges in the country and noted that the crisis where spills from regional conflict in Africa. Ambassador Lee said Korea would be ready to partner with Nigeria to achieve global and regional peace. Also on a courtesy visit was Egypt Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Assem Hanati Elsieti with the Defence Minister expressing optimism that Nigeria and Egypt can jointly champion the cause of regional peace through shared experiences in Military technology and intelligence. Gen. Magashi further said Nigeria appreciates the effort of Egypt in the successes it has recorded in the area of Health, Agriculture, Education, as well as in advanced socialization and urbanization. In his remark, the Egyptian Ambassador, Mr. Assem said the relationship between the two countries started in the sixties and has developed to a matured cooperation of mutual benefit to the two countries. Ambassador Assem said he is optimistic that new opportunities abound for greater cooperation against regional crisis including militia, insurgency and new trends in terrorism. vanguard The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) on Thursday expressed satisfaction with the successes recorded so far by the Armed Forces of Nigeria in tackling the Boko Haram insurgency in the North East. March 15, 2018 In "News" Nigeria and Cameroon will meet on Wednesday in Abuja in furtherance of various efforts to stamp out the scourge of terrorism from the West Africa sub-region, a statement said on Tuesday. October 14, 2014 In "News" The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai and the Ambassador of Arab Republic of Egypt to Nigeria, Amb. Assem Elseify, have called for strengthened military cooperation between Nigeria and Egypt. They made the call when the ambassador led a delegation on a courtesy call to Army Headquarters on Thursday… January 16, 2020 In "News"