African leaders are gathering in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa on Sunday for the 33rd African Union (AU) summit focusing on security which is expected to discuss the Libyan crisis. The summit will see South Africa taking over the group’s presidency from Egypt. The two-day meeting is held under the theme “Silencing the Guns,” reflecting goals of the AU’s Agenda 2063. The plan, which kicked off in 2013, is aimed at transforming African states  and establishing security and peace across the continent. United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres is scheduled to attend the summit, which is expected to discuss the Libyan crisis. The UN has been trying to turn a fragile ceasefire between the warring Libyan parties into a lasting truce. On Thursday, German Chancellor Angela Merkel met South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and stressed the importance of African states’ involvement in shaping a solution for the conflict in Libya. Egypt supports military strongman General Khalifa Haftar, while the UN backs the Tripoli-based government of Fayez Serraj. The summit also comes amid a dispute between Egypt and Sudan on the one side and Ethiopia on the other over a dam built by the latter on the Blue Nile, which Cairo fears will reduce its supply of water. After several meetings hosted by Washington, the three states said a final agreement would be signed in late February. Vanguard  United Nations (UN) Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Saturday said he supported the African Union (AU) taking a greater role in mediating the Libya crisis, acknowledging the bloc's frustration at being sidelined so far. The AU leadership has complained at being overlooked in peace-making efforts related to Libya, which have been… February 8, 2020 In "News" A report from the AU secretariat, said more than 50 African Heads of State have begun arriving in South Africa ahead of the 25th African Union (AU) Summit which gets underway in Johannesburg on Friday. June 11, 2015 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has arrived Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, ahead of the 33rd Ordinary Session of Heads of State and Government of the African Union (AU). The President’s Personal Assistant on New Media, Bashir Ahmed, confirmed this development on his Twitter account on Friday evening. Buhari, who left Abuja after performing… February 8, 2020 In "News"