The Executive Chairman Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Mr. Muhammad Nami, has blamed non-discretionary tax waivers, illicit financial outflows and high overhead costs for the organisation’s failure to meet its tax revenue targets in recent times. Nami , stated this    yesterday in Abuja at a Senate interactive session with revenue generating agencies, aimed to improve the internally generated revenue (IGR) of the Federal Government through non-oil revenue sources. A statement by Director, Communications and Liaison Department, FIRS, Abdullahi Ahmad, quoted Nami as saying, “Nigeria loses a lot of revenue through tax waivers granted to big companies which otherwise would have been taxed to buoy up government revenue. Also, illicit financial flow is a major cause of revenue loss to Nigeria. “Coupled with this is the operational cost of the FIRS which is also high compared to the statutory provisions for the running of the organization. I am new in the FIRS but upon my assumption of office, I have discovered that these, among other factors, contributed to making the FIRS unable to meet its target in recent times.” Consequently, Nami canvassed better official discretion in granting tax waivers, even as he assured that he is working hard at the FIRS in collaboration with relevant government agencies to stem illicit financial flow, especially via profit shifting by multinationals operating in the country. The FIRS boss urged the National Assembly to assist the organization in this regard in order to increase government revenue towards the modernization of public infrastructure in the country. Vanguard The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) says it is working towards blocking about 10 billion dollars tax leakages by multinational corporations operating in the country who engaged in illicit profit shifting. FIRS Executive Chairman, Mr Muhammad Nami said this at the 2020 Corporate Plan Retreat of the service in Abuja… February 7, 2020 In "News" The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has launched a national intelligence gathering system to gather data and track all tax evaders and defaulters, with a view to bringing them all to book and make them pay their fair share of taxes to the country. February 12, 2020 In "News" The Federal Inland Revenue Services (FIRS) says Nigeria lost 1.3trillion naira to granting of tax waivers to companies operating in three sectors of the economy in the last five years. February 13, 2020 In "News"