OSOGBO—THE committee set up by the Osun State government to review its education policy, yesterday, submitted its report recommending that government reverses to the 6-3-3-4 system and the single uniform policy. It also recommended that Opon Imo be retained after some adjustment adding that the policy of mixing students, in schools meant for single-sex, should be given adequate attention. Chairman of the Review Committee, Professor Olu Aina, while submitting the panel’s report to Governor Adegboyega Oyetola in his office, said the panel proposed 11 recommendations within the context of the national education policy and global best practices. Former Governor Rauf Aregbesola had introduced the middle school system by merging Primary 5 and 6 to the junior secondary school classes. However, the panel disclosed that merging of Primary 5 and 6, though laudable for reason of school feeding initiative but, violated the 6-3-3-4 structure. Professor Aina, a former registrar of the National Business and Technical Examination Board, NABTEB, said the panel had painstakingly reviewed and addressed all education-related issues with a view to “strengthening the delivery of quality and affordable education in response to the wishes and yearnings of the people of the State.” He said that the creation of “the 4-5-3-4 and the Middle School are unknown to the National Policy on Education, NPE.” Other issues X-rayed by the panel are the policy of single school uniforms, mixing male and female pupils in schools established for single-sex students and desirability of retaining the posts of Head Masters General and Tutors General in the rank of Permanent Secretary among others. He said: “The issues were subjected to comprehensive and critical review; they were individually discussed in consideration of situating the education policies of the Osun State within the context of the overall national education policy and global best practices, and especially considering the interest of students and their parents. “Even though education is on the concurrent legislative list of the Constitution of Nigeria, state policy should be closely aligned to, and flow from the National Policy so that products of our education policy and practice are not disadvantaged.” We’re repositioning Osun — Oyetola Governor Oyetola, in his response, said his administration is resolved to repositioning the state for the betterment of all the citizens, saying that it is committed to securing future of the children and those unborn. He said: “We desired to hearken to the yearnings and aspirations of the citizenry that necessitated this review in the first instance. “As a government, our policies and programmes are driven by citizens’ needs. These needs which were further validated by the United Kingdom Department for International Development’s (DFID)- funded Citizens Needs Assessment exercise in Osun, were harvested during the Thank You Tour/Town Hall Meetings, where the people told us in plain language that they wanted some aspects of our educational policies removed, adjusted or improved upon. “That was what led to the Policy Review Roundtable Summit, the report of which we are receiving today (yesterday). We are prepared to do what will improve the lots of our people and protect the future of our children. “As a leader, therefore, I am conscious of the need to be just and fair to all manner of people regardless of their leanings in the discharge of my duties. This I will always uphold. “Rest assured that your efforts will not be in vain. We will be swift and proactive in debating it at our level to implement the recommendations without any further delay.” Vanguard As Oyetola reiterates commitment to securing children’s future  Shina Abubakar Osogbo The committee set by Osun State government to review it's education policy on Monday submitted its report recommending that government reverse to the 6-3-3-4 system, as well as the single uniform policy. It also recommended that 'Opon Imo', be… February 24, 2020 In "Education" Osun State Education Panel, on Monday, submitted its report to Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. Some of the panel's recommendations are a reversal of the single school uniform regime and return to the 6-3-3-4 education system in line with the National Education Policy. February 24, 2020 In "News" Following the educational reforms in Osun State, which led to the reclassification and mergers of schools, introduction of one school uniform and the alleged introduction of ‘Ifa’ as a school subject, concerned educationist have questioned the workability of such reforms, especially as it has caused an uproar among students, teachers… October 17, 2013 In "Education"