Dimitar Berbatov claims Odion Ighalo’s proven track record makes him a valuable addition to Manchester United this season. The Nigerian arrived on deadline day from Shanghai Shenhua on loan until the end of the season. And while Berbatov admits he was surprised by the move he thinks Ighalo’s goalscoring record in the Premier League 16 goals in 55 Premier League games will help United in their push for the top four. “Manchester United needed to sign a striker but I was still surprised when they brought in Odion Ighalo on loan,” he told Betfair. “I think it’s a good move for United because Ighalo has played in the Premier League, and did well with Watford, so he will know what to expect. “He’s scored plenty of goals in China and his record for Nigeria is impressive too. I want to see him play as soon as possible because I’m curious to see how he will fit into Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s plans. “Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial both like to cut in from the left so United have arguably lacked a natural number nine this season. That’s what Ighalo should give them and I will be interested to see how they play with him in the side.” Football 365 Vanguard News Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said Odion Ighalo is a "great lad and very professional" as the Premier League giants completed a deadline-day loan move for the Shanghai Shenhua striker. Ighalo leaves Chinese Super League (CSL) outfit Shenhua for Manchester on loan until the end of the season at… February 1, 2020 In "Sports" I G H A L O   Buy now  https://t.co/yQiIa7mVQT pic.twitter.com/Us6mufhtn2 — Manchester United (@ManUtd) February 4, 2020 Manchester United loan signing Odion Ighalo has been assigned the number 25 shirt following his short-term arrival from Shanghai Shenhua until the end of the season. The Ighalo deal was… February 4, 2020 In "Sports" Former Watford coach, Quique Sanchez has backed Odion Ighalo to score goals for Manchester United, but he needs a month to settle down. Ighalo made a deadline day loan transfer to United from Shanghai Shenhua and many soccer pundits have warned coach Ole Gunnar Solksjaer not expect much from… February 4, 2020 In "Sports"