The Nigerian Academy of Science, NAS, has appointed Professor Ekanem Braide as President-elect. A statement signed by Dr Oladoyin Odubanjo, Executive Secretary, NAS, stated that Braide, a professor of Parasitology/Epidemiology and erstwhile Vice-President of the Academy, will be the first female President of the Academy in 43 years of existence when she takes over office in January, 2021, from Professor Mosto Onuoha. She was a member of the national committee that achieved the laudable feat of Guinea worm eradication in Nigeria. She has a rich professional experience as a researcher and an administrator. A former Vice-Chancellor at the Federal University Lafia, Nasarawa State and Cross River University of Technology, Calabar, Braide. She is expected to lead the Academy in achieving an improved quality of life for the Nigerian society through the promotion and application of science and technology; as well as strengthen the nation’s ability to deliver the fruits of science to society by the acquisition, growth, and dissemination of sound scientific knowledge and facilitation of its use in the solution of major national problems. Also newly appointed is Professor Abubakar Sambo, as Vice-President of the Academy. A former Director-General of the Energy Commission of Nigeria, Sambo is currently Chairman of the Ministerial Task Force on Power serving as an advisory team on policies and innovative technologies. Established in 1977, the NAS is the foremost independent scientific body in Nigeria dedicated to the development and advancement of science, technology, and innovation in Nigeria and brings scientific knowledge to positively guide policies/strategic direction of the country. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Nigeria Academy of Science on Wednesday tasked members of Nasarawa State House of Assembly to initiate more youths friendly programmes in their various constituencies. September 27, 2017 In "News" The Federal University, Lafia, Nasarawa State, has appointed its first professor and graduated six first-class students from among its 199 pioneer students. December 17, 2015 In "News" The winner of The Nigeria Prize for Science 2010, University of Benin Professor of Manufacturing Engineering, Mr. Akaehomen Ibhadode, will be crowned tonight in Lagos at the Grand Award Night. October 9, 2010 Similar post