Simba Group, distributors of Luminous power back-up solutions including inverters, batteries and solar powered systems, yesterday,   unveiled a Luminous Solar Tall Tubular battery into the Nigerian market. Speaking during the unveiling of the product, Business Head, Simba Power Products, Mr Ravi Srivastava, disclosed that the battery which is optimized for solar applications is made with patented technologies to offer fast charging and long power back-up. He stated: “We at Simba are delighted to launch the Luminous Solar Tall Tubular battery, made with patented alloys and manufactured to the highest standards. This is the first tubular battery with 24 months warranty in Nigeria. At Simba, we are passionate about the drive to consistently deliver innovative products and services across the country. “Recently, we were the first in Nigeria to introduce the paperless warranty system, our mobile app for customers and our e-training platform for electricians who service our products. We believe that this Luminous Solar Tall Tubular battery, which lasts longer and charges quicker, will deliver ultimate value to our customers.” Also speaking at the event, Group Head, Marketing, Simba Group, Mr Karthik Govindarajan, noted that the driving force behind Simba has always been affordability, innovation and service. He stated: “Some of our recent successes have been the Luminous DeLite, a value-optimised package comprising of an inverter, tubular battery and trolley sold at N99,000 only, which ensures access to the inverter solution for at all. “We also recently introduced the Regalia, an advanced wall-mounted system powered by Lithium-ion batteries, Wi-Fi enabled and solar-ready, to cater to the discerning user.”  Wandel International Nigeria Limited, a member of the Simba Group and makers of alternate energy power solutions which include inverters and solar powered systems has introduced a new flexible and affordable payment plan for its existing and prospective customers. September 12, 2017 In "Energy" Eternity Technologies Limited, FZ LLC, world class manufacturers of motive power, network power, block batteries for cyclic applications, chargers and accessories, has announced the appointment of African Automotive Limited, Nigeria as their exclusive distributors. April 6, 2018 In "Motoring" AS Nigerians bask in the euphoria of the 50th Independence anniversary celebration, Omatek Ventures Plc has announced the deployment of 24-hour alternative solar-powered hybrid solution combined with LED bulbs in 22 schools in Ekiti State. October 26, 2010 In "Energy"