The conference had resolved that the Minister of Finance, not the President will now present the annual budget to the National Assembly, even as it threw out a recommendation for a Unicameral legislature and voted that the bi-cameral legislature be maintained. The report also stated that public schools taken over by various state governments across the country 42 years ago would henceforth be returned to the religious missions which were the original owners. The conference had also voted in favour of the Modified Presidential System of Government as recommended by the committee. The President elected under the new system shall exercise full responsibility for his government and shall select ministers, not more than 18 of them, from the six geo-political zones of the country, and in the modified presidential system the president shall pick the vice president from the legislature. The report recommended that there should be the complete abolition of the concept of a plea bargain by accused public functionaries and also agreed for the establishment of special courts, for instance, anti-corruption courts to handle cases involving corrupt practices. Also in the report, henceforth, anybody arraigned before the court by EFCC, ICPC and by any law enforcement agencies, the accused person is regarded as guilty, unlike the present situation where he is regarded as innocent until the accused is proven not guilty. Now he is regarded as guilty until he proves himself innocent.  By Henry Umoru ABUJA - THE Senate said on Wednesday that as it begins another process of review of the 1999 Constitution, the recommendations in the report of 2014 National Conference would be seriously considered. The Senate has also said that in the course of its assignment, the 56- member… February 12, 2020 In "News" The President will, in the future, appoint his ministers within a time-frame, and the portfolios attached to the nominees, while submitting the list to the Senate for screening and confirmation, if a recommendation by the Joint Committee of the National Assembly on the Review of the 1999 Constitution (as amended)… July 23, 2017 In "Headlines" THE Senate,yesterday, struck out proposals for a six year single term for the president and governors even as it rejected agitation for local government autonomy while passing the bill to alter the 1999 constitution. July 17, 2013 In "News"