FOLLOWING the outbreak of dreaded Coronavirus disease also known as Convid 19 in Lagos, the Delta State Government, yesterday said it has placed all health-related institutions and disease control mechanisms on red alert in readiness for any possible cause of the dreaded disease in the State. Briefing newsmen in Asaba, the state Commissioner for Health, Dr Mordi Ononye said the state was prepared to curtail the disease if there is an outbreak. Ononye said the State has switched from watch mode to alert mode since the disease was recorded in
Lagos. According to him, the team that successfully managed Lassa fever has built enough capacity and shown commitment to address any health challenge. Ononye said the seaports in Warri, Sapele, Koko and Oghara have been designated as holding centres for any possible outbreak, saying “all hospitals across the state have been mandated to designate an isolated area as a detention centre for any case of Convid 19”. The State Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu said the fatality rate of Convid 19 is 2.3%, adding that “is not a death sentence. “It is not as bad as Ebola, and we were able to deal with Ebola. As a state, we maintain international borders because of the airport and seaports, and the disease is coming from outside, unlike Lassa fever. “We have started screening at Asaba Airport but we want to urge our people not to panic, they should go about their lawful businesses without entertaining fears”. The Incident Manager, Delta State Response Management Centre, Dr Anne Ojimba who said 82,294 Convid 19 cases have be recorded globally, said 2,804 deaths have been so far recorded. While saying that the cases mostly occurred in China, Ojimba said: “there have been reported cases in Algeria and Egypt, making Nigeria a high-risk nation”. Giving tips on how to prevent the disease, Ojimba enjoined members of the public to always engage in adequate and effective hand washing practice. She told residents of the State to maintain 1.5 meters away from any person coughing and urged those coughing to observe coughing etiquettes. speaking further, Ojimba urged residents to avoid contacts with persons suspected to be having the respiratory disorder, charging health institutions to take precautionary measures. Delta is among the five high-risk states and Abuja for the airborne disease because of the availability of seaports and airport. Vanguard ...donates isolation centre to FMC By Festus Ahon, Asaba Delta State Government has expressed its readiness to tackle the dreaded Lassa fever in the event of outbreak of the disease in the State, urging Deltans and non Deltans alike not to panic over the rumour of outbreak of disease in… January 23, 2020 In "Health" By Chioma Obinna The Federal Ministry of Health and the Lagos Ministry of Health have jointly confirmed the first case of Coronavirus in Nigeria. The confirmation was contained in two separate statements signed y Prof Ehanire Osagie, Minister of Health and in another, the commissioner for Health Lagos,  Prof Akin… February 28, 2020 In "Health" As global attention remains focused on the outbreak of the novel Coronavirus strain (2019nCoV) that has continued to spread across the world, the Federal Government says it is well positioned to handle cases of Coronavirus in the in the unlikely event that it is detected in Nigeria. January 26, 2020 In "Health"