Barely eight hours the United States President, Donald Trump, slapped immigration restrictions on Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari has said that the country is committed to maintaining productive relationships with the United States. The President also, inaugurated a committee that will study and address U.S. requirements. Buhari who reacted through his Media aide, Femi Adesina, said the committee would be chaired by Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior. His words, “The DHS states the suspension of ‘immigrant visas’ became necessary following a review and update of the methodology (performance metrics) adopted by the U.S Government to assess compliance of certain security criteria by foreign governments,” he said. READ ALSO: Insecurity: Buhari’s surprise shocks Nigerians “This resulted in certain enhancements on how information is shared between Nigeria and the U.S. “Nigeria remains committed to maintaining productive relations with the United States and its international allies especially on matters of global security. “Accordingly, Mr President has established a committee, to be Chaired by the Hon. Minister of Interior, to study and address the updated U.S. requirements. The committee will work with the U.S Government, INTERPOL and other stakeholders to ensure all updates are properly implemented.” Vanguard United States President, Donald Trump, on Friday slapped immigration restrictions on citizens of six countries including Nigeria, in addition to the list of nations already targeted by his controversial travel ban. Besides Africa's most populous nation, the new measures also pertain to Myanmar, Eritrea, Kyrgyzstan, Sudan and Tanzania, administration officials… February 1, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari said his meeting with U.S. President Donald Trump yielded positive results in economy, security and anti-corruption. April 30, 2018 In "News" The meeting between President Muhammadu Buhari and his U.S. counterpart, Donald Trump, showed approval for the Buhari-led administration, Nigeria’s top officials at the meeting said. May 2, 2018 In "News"