AS part of efforts of the Oyo State government to boost its Internally Generated Revenue, it announced on Friday that park managers that would assist in the collection of revenue at motor parks, garages, and quarries across the 33 local government areas in the state would be inaugurated on Monday. Addressing newsmen at a press conference, the state Commissioner for Works and Transport, Prof. Raphael Afonja, explained that the state had rolled out a plan to engage consultants that would be collecting revenue on behalf of the government and has decided to appoint park managers across the 33 local government areas of the state. According to him, the goal was to get them to become the eye of government to collect revenue on behalf of the state government and would be remitted through the consultant to the government coffers. “The names of the park managers will be unveiled on Monday. The managers will comprise assistant park managers, secretary and Treasurers.” “This is totally different from the traditional thing that has been going on before now, the government felt there is a need to have appropriate people that can actually spearhead the collection of revenue for the state.” The commissioner reiterated that activities of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in the state remained proscribed and that all fees hitherto collected in motor parks, garages and quarries are illegal except that which be allowed. In his remarks, the state Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr Wasiu Olatunbosun, stressed that the development is a new architecture for the transportation system in the state and has nothing to do with the NURTW. Vanguard THE Oyo State government has taken proactive steps on boosting its internally generated revenue by introducing the presumptive tax due which would be paid by men and women into its coffers through the use of point of sale system. July 13, 2018 In "News" The government of Seyi Makinde in Oyo State is setting its eyes on the solid mineral sector as a major boost for its Internally-Generated Revenue (IGR), the Special Adviser on Solid Minerals Development, Mr Abiodun Oni has said. Oni, in a presentation on behalf of the state government at the… October 28, 2019 In "News" IN a landmark move aimed at making education free and to boost internally generated revenue and funding for the security agencies, All Progressives Governors in the country have approved three bills aimed at giving legal backing to the new policies. October 7, 2017 In "News"