President Muhammadu Buhari Sunday said that his administration has significantly weakened Boko Haram’s military capability to invade and hold Nigerian territory unchallenged. President Buhari who said this while reacting to the attack on Garkida community of Adamawa State by the Boko Haram insurgents sympathized with families of the victims. The President in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, condemned the attack on the community. He assured that no part of Nigeria would be abandoned to their fate. According to Buhari, “These attacks on soft targets by the terrorists are obvious signs of frustration because my administration has significantly weakened Boko Haram’s military capability to invade and hold Nigerian territory unchallenged. “Our gallant forces deserve our appreciation for repelling the attackers but they must go beyond this point. They have our full support to go after the terrorists and have them pay a huge price. I want to assure the country that terrorists will continue to face the combined power of our military until they give up their mistaken ways. “These occasional and episodic attacks on poor civilians by the terrorists are mere propaganda efforts to portray them as strong in order to fool the public into believing that they haven’t been militarily weekend by our gallant troops.” President Buhari said since the coming of his administration, Boko Haram’s ability to invade and occupy Nigerian territories, let alone be able to hoist their flags had been frustrated. The President said in the coming weeks Nigerians would witness an aggressive campaign to rout Boko Haram once and for all. “Security will continue to be well funded despite the competing needs of social services. I appeal to Nigerians to continue to support our troops in their gallant efforts to protect the citizens and secure the country,” President Buhari further added. Vanguard ABUJA—PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has said his administration will do everything possible not just to avoid abduction similar to that of Dapchi schoolgirls but also attacks on humanitarian workers like that of Rann in Borno State. March 7, 2018 In "News" **thanks US govt for sending military equipment By Levinus Nwabughiogu ABUJA - President Muhammadu Buhari has reiterated the determination of his government to completely rout Boko Haram by December. The President, who however placed his determination in the ability of the Nigerian military, declared not to allow the insurgents to… October 14, 2015 In "News" The Centre For African Liberation and Socio-Economic Rights (CALSER), on Wednesday, penned an emotional letter to President Muhammadu Buhari on the war against terrorism, calling on Governor Babagana Zulum and Borno elders to support the military. February 20, 2020 In "News"