Leicester boss Brendan Rodgers is confident the winter break will give Wilfred Ndidi the time required to overcome his latest knee injury. Ndidi made a remarkable recovery last month following surgery to remove a piece of floating bone from the meniscus, returning to action just 12 days after the operation. But after coming on as a 34th-minute substitute in City’s 4-1 Premier League win over West Ham on January 22, and then playing the full 90 minutes of his side’s Carabao Cup semi-final second-leg defeat at Aston Villa six days later, Ndidi was pulled out of Saturday’s 2-2 home draw with Chelsea. With Leicester City not in action now until Valentine’s Day clash with Wolves, Rodgers is hopeful the 23-year-old Nigerian will be able to play at Molineux. Explaining the situation, Rodgers told Leicester’s website: “We just thought it was too big a risk really. “He was down to play, even right up until the team-sheet going in, well before the game, but gradually he felt the pain. “I can just tell. I’ve known Wilf long enough now. He’s a real warrior and a tough player, so to see him in the pain when he walked, it just made no sense to risk him. “We took it out of his hands, let him rest. He’s got a period of rest now, which will help his knee.” Football 365 Vanguard News Wilfred Ndidi rounded off Leicester's biggest league win since Rodgers arrived from Celtic to replace Claude Puel in February, leaving them just two points behind second-placed Manchester City by seeing off 10-man Newcastle 5-0 in the Premier League. September 29, 2019 In "News" Leicester City manager Brendan Rodgers has confirmed Wilfred Ndidi had a successful surgery and has started his recovery process. The Super Eagles star, who has been a key member of the Foxes squad this season, suffered a knee injury in training on Tuesday. ALSO READ: Ogu: Saudi club Al Adalah sign… January 11, 2020 In "Sports" Wilfred Ndidi is delighted to have marked his 100th Premier League appearance in Leicester City's 2-0 victory over Brighton and Hove Albion. The 22-year-old, who moved to England from Genk in 2017, was in action from start to finish as Brendan Rodgers' side cruised to victory at the Amex Stadium.… November 24, 2019 In "Sports"