The city of Ilorin, as well as Kwara State in general, is getting ready for The Connect Party, a new event series scheduled to hold on Sunday which will serve to unite lovers of entertainment in the state and beyond. The event which continues to rouse the anticipation of many in Ilorin and beyond will be graced by some of the biggest acts in the entertainment industry, with popular On-Air Personality and entertainer VJ Adams and music acts such as Lyta and Picazo among those listed on the performance roaster. With attractions such as non-stop music, food stalls, games, party and performances, The Connect Party is aimed at bringing vibes to the city of Ilorin, connect the youths, influencers and celebrities to foster togetherness and enterprise. It is also hoped that the event will add to the growing social life of the state capital and the need to harness the entertainment potentials in the state. With Ilorin being a city teeming with youthful population amid the host of tertiary institutions in the city, youths and fun lovers alike will hope to have an unforgettable entertainment experience. The maiden edition of the event will be held at Kwara Hotel Field, Ilorin. VANGUARD AT the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month, twenty years ago, in 1995, Hon. Justice Ibrahim Gambari, was officially instituted as the eleventh Fulani Emir of Ilorin. His Royal Highness came to the throne eminently qualified and prepared for the position. November 12, 2015 In "Is'haq Modibbo Kawu" Ilorin-It was a carnival of a sort,as the ancient city of Ilorin,Kwara state capital, was shut down for the better part of Thursday when the gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC)Alh Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq went on a road show to campaign for President Muhammadu Buhari,himself and other candidates of… January 12, 2019 In "News" The usually quiet Ikeja City Mall car park came alive in a blaze of lights, music and good spirits on Friday December 18, 2015 as the #BASEWHITEXMASPARTY organised by MTV Base dazzled over 2,000 screaming fans with performances from superstar acts like Olamide, Phyno, Wande coal, Reminsce, Sean Tizzle and… December 22, 2015 In "Entertainment"