Universal Music Africa,UMA, a division of Universal Music Group,UMG, the world leader in music-based entertainment, has announced the signing of an exclusive recording agreement with award-winning Kenyan Afro-pop collective, Sauti Sol. The Kenyan Afro-pop band is comprised of vocalists Bien-Aimé Baraza, Willis Chimano, Savara Mudigi and guitarist, Polycarp Otieno. The agreement will give the band access to UMG’s global network around the world and will allow greater opportunity for the band to reach new audiences globally, whilst continuing to satisfy and excite their dedicated fanbase with bold, creative campaigns that will engage a new generation of fans throughout Africa. The band released their well-received debut studio album, ‘Mwanzo’ in 2008, followed by, ‘Sol Filosofia’ in 2011, which amassed multiple accolades in the form of awards and nominations. The music video for the single ‘Coming Home’ earned them the Best Music Video award at the Kisima Music Awards, as well as, the Best Fusion Artist/Group of the Year award. Their collaboration EP with South African rapper and producer, Spoek Mathambo was released in 2012. The music video for the single ‘Range Rover’ was shot at an old Dutch ammunition factory in Zaandam, Netherlands, which has since become a cultural heritage site. ‘Live and Die in Afrika’, their 2015 third studio album was released for free download for 48 hours. This early Christmas present to their fans garnered 400,000 downloads in that period alone. READ ALSO: Davido, Tiwa Savage, Falz shine at AFRIMA, Ambode, Chaka Chaka honoured Having toured successfully across Africa, the US, Europe and Australia, the chart-topping band has received the recognition and respect of both their fans and the industry, taking home international awards including, BET Awards, an MTV EMA for Best African Act and MTV AFRICA Award for Best African Group. Last year the band opened their own record label; Sol Generation Records, with the sole mission of developing and introducing new iconic live African acts. Founded on the ethos of discipline, order, passion and endurance (DOPE), it’s pitched to attract authentic songwriters and shape shifting musicians, who will pen soundtracks to peoples’ lives.SSSSS Sipho Dlamini, MD of UMG South Africa & Sub-Saharan Africa enthused, “We are delighted to announce our partnership with Sauti Sol, one of the most innovative and creative groups to have broken through from Africa in recent years. Universal Music Africa is dedicated to helping the best African music talent reach new audiences around the world and we are excited to welcome them to our global UMG family. We look forward to working together with them to ensure they are able to authentically celebrate Africa through music and to help introduce their unique blend Afro-pop to new listeners everywhere.” Vanguard Legendary Nigerian Afro-beat King, Femi Kuti, joined by his full band, will take to the stage today, when the first-ever AfricaMagic Viewers’ Choice Awards is screened live to over 50 countries on the African continent, on DStv and GOtv! March 9, 2013 In "Home Video People" Pop star Davido gets the same reaction wherever he goes in Africa, whether it's in Guinea or Mozambique, Botswana, Kenya or Sierra Leone: teeming crowds and adoring fans. November 9, 2017 In "Music" Ladysmith Black Mambazo, Diamond Platnumz, Casper Ynovest, Yemi Alade, Charlotte Dipanda, AKA, Olamide, Stanley Enow, Davido, Stonebwoy and 162 other African superstars have confirmed attendance for African music and culture, the All Africa Music Awards, AFRIMA 2015 slated for Sunday, November 15 at Eko Convention Centre, Eko Hotel and Suites,… October 31, 2015 In "Entertainment"