“In as much as I don’t support the usage of Okada and tricycles on the highways, I urge the government to find a lasting solution to the rate of unemployment in the country. “I studied Business Admin in one of the polytechnics and I wouldn’t have ventured into Okada business if I was able to get a job, but truth be told, this business is risky.” -Olayemi Tola, Okada rider The govt has done well provided the restriction is limited to the highways and bridges. Many of these riders are untrained and end up endangering the lives of others through recklessness. The 2012 Traffic Law has been in existence but how many riders observe it? Though the enforcement will affect many people. -Ajayi Oluwafemi, Computer Engineer “The restriction of Okada and tricycles on major roads in Lagos State is a welcome idea because many innocent lives have been lost through Okada and tricycles on our highways. Some are in the hospital as a result of Okada accident. Although Okada is helpful for safety, let all riders register their names in their CDAs so that they can be monitored.” -Iyabo K. Martins, Fashion Designer “Restricting Okada and tricycles in Lagos State is like closing down a major means of employment for a set of people. I think the state government should instil sanity and discipline in the mode of operation of these riders instead of banning them from major routes in the state. So many families will suffer because those affected are breadwinners of their families.” -Olarewaju Ellen, Makeup Artist. “The restriction is wicked, barbaric and totally against the common man whose means of survival depends largely on such means. What alternative source of income has the government created for those affected? Nothing! “If this goes through, then the crime rate will continue to increase and the government and innocent citizens will suffer for the poor and thoughtless decision of the government.” -Bankole Emanuel “Lagos State is peculiar in the sense that Okada is the fastest means of transportation. It is a place where car owners will have to abandon their cars and take Okada to avoid missing an important assignment. “I take Okada when going to purchase spare parts and it costs a lot of money but I have no choice. The primary responsibility of government is to deliver a good road network to its citizens.” -Oladimeji Folowoselo Mechanic Vanguard News Nigeria Time was 6pm at the traffic-busy, indeed chaotic, Mile 2 area of Lagos. A mammoth horde of fuel tankers and other articulated trucks has as usual taken over every inch of driving space, thus impeding the flow of traffic along the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway from the Second Rainbow Bus-stop all the… April 27, 2016 In "Metro" The stage is set for a major confrontation between the Lagos State Government and commercial motorcyclists and tricycle operators otherwise known as Okada and Keke riders today. February 1, 2020 In "News" The drastic fall in standard of living and horrible decline in quality public transportation in the country were attributable to the emergence of motorcyles and tricycles (keke Marwa) as means of commercial transport for commuters in urban centres, cities and towns. November 3, 2012 In "Special Report"