The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO), says President Muhammadu Buhari is “fully in charge of critical affairs of government” in the country. In a statement jointly signed by the Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju, and the Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, MBO urged members of the public to disregard claims that Buhari had abdicated his responsibilities as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. “The president is fully in charge; there cannot be room for discord in taking decisions on security matters,” he said. The group accused the PDP of latching on an in-house issue in the Presidency, which had since been resolved, to push a self-serving interest. “To curb security challenges in the country, President Buhari has, in the last three months, held two meetings with Service Chiefs and heads of security agencies. “The president has also held series of local and international meetings on security matters with a view to making the country more secure. “The opposition party just opted to twist an in-house situation to mean that strange persons had been presiding over critical affairs of governance. “That PDP could make it seem like the President has abdicated his responsibilities and should resign is nothing but mischief taken too far. “The President has never abdicated his duty on security matters to anyone and, like Presidential spokesman Garba Shehu once said, he is working hard to keep Nigeria and Nigerians out of the harm terrorists,” the group stated. The statement said that there was an estimated 10 million small arms and light weapons in circulation in Africa as a result of the Libyan crisis, quoting a report by the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA). “Out of this number, one million are believed to be in Nigeria,” it lamented. He recalled that the President had since 2015 placed security high up on his agenda, adding that there was no shift from that focus. “There is no split, crisis or disharmony in the security architecture of the country as is being speculated,” BMO concluded. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. The Buhari Media Organisation, BMO, has accused the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the February 2019 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of being directly responsible for the ‘pauperisation of millions of Nigerians’ as head of the National Council on Privatisation, NCP. August 7, 2019 In "News" *If the President is surprised it means he is not in charge – MBF *Buhari’s statement is a mark of sincerity – BMO *It means they have not been telling him the truth – Benue leader By Clifford Ndujihe, Anayo Okoli, Peter Duru, Levinus Nwabughiogu, Dirisu Yakubu, & Marie-Therese Nanlong… February 1, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to suspend the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, should be regarded as a conscious shift of policy to fast track the fight against corruption, the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has said. January 26, 2019 In "News"