The Federal Ministry of Education, FME, has indicated that from next year all the 104 Unity Schools will participate in the First Lego League, FLL, National Robotics Championship Competition. The Minister of State for Education, Honourable Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, made this known when FLL national championship winners emerged recently. Nwajiuba who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Arch. Sonny Echono, said the decision to allow all Unity Schools’ participation is meant to strengthen critical and computational thinking among students. FLL was brought to Nigeria by a non-governmental organisation, Coderina Education and Technology Foundation, supported by SAP. The 2020 competition, in its sixth edition, was with the theme: “City Shaper” and was organised by Coderina in collaboration with the Ministry and the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools, NAPPS, with supports from SAP; National Information Technology Development Agency, NITDA; Irish Aid and the Baze University in Abuja. During the programme, an all-girls team from Federal Government Girls College, FGGC, Ikot Obio Itong, Akwa Ibom State emerged overall champions. Earlier in his keynote address, the Director-General of NITDA, Mr Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi represented by the Director of eGovernment Development and Regulation, eGDR, Dr Vincent Olatunji said that NITDA is saddled with the responsibility of developing and regulating the use of Information Technology in the country, which has contributed immensely to the country’s Gross Domestic Product, GDP. VANGUARD A student of Girls Secondary School, Abakpa-Nike, Enugu State, Miss Chidiogo Jane Onoh, has emerged the overall winner of the maiden edition of the essay writing competition of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE). In a letter to the principal of the school, the Director-General of BPE, Alex A. Okoh,… November 28, 2019 In "Education" Mr Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, Minister of State for Education, has said that the Federal Government would work very closely with states and local governments toward closing down secondary schools found to be sub-standard. November 1, 2019 In "News" Mr Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, Minister of State for Education, has said that the Federal Government is doing everything possible to get every child that's out of school back to school. He said the federal government would work very closely with states and local governments toward closing down secondary schools found to… November 2, 2019 In "Education"