The Director-General, National Agency for the Control of AIDS, NACA, Dr. Gambo Aliyu has admonished all  Nigerians, especially young people, to take advantage of the spirit of love and togetherness that Valentine’s Day signifies, to know their HIV status. Gambo, who spoke ahead  Valentine’s Day, said it is important that all Nigerians know their HIV status, as it marks the entry point to Prevention, Treatment, and Care of HIV/AIDS. ‘’A young person not tested may not have the opportunity to enjoy future Valentine’s Days if he or she is diagnosed late or presents with terminal complications related to HIV infection and AIDS. “This period is particularly noted for young people expressing their love for one another. This could lead to impulsive decisions such as unprotected sex resulting in unplanned pregnancies and an increased risk of acquiring sexually transmitted infections including HIV/AIDS.” The DG NACA urges Nigerians, especially the youths, to express love within the context of caring deeply for their loved ones and avoid risky behavior that will make them vulnerable to HIV/AIDS and other STDs. Gambo noted that the first sexual contact among youths in Nigeria begins at less than 15 years for 15 percent of Nigeria’s youth. It is gathered that based on the NAIIS draft report, HIV Prevalence among a sampled number of youths is 0.5 percent which recorded highest among females between age 15-24 years at 0.8 percent while males of the same age bracket stood at 0.2 percent. This, coupled with the practice of having multiple sexual partners increases HIV vulnerability among the youth population alongside the very low HIV testing rates – only 17 per cent of young people know their HIV status. He said it is important to reduce this worrying trend among Nigerian youths by encouraging faithful relationships for those who cannot abstain from sex, and the use of barrier protection such as condoms, which prevent STDs including HIV and unwanted pregnancies.” “As we express love on this day, remember to Love Wisely. As members of the wider society, your health and productivity is vital to the future of our country. So, I urge you to avoid risky behaviors as we commemorate Valentine’s Day. Love Wisely, Share Love not HIV”. vanguard The National Agency for the Control of AIDS ,NACA, has urged Nigerians to avoid engaging in risky behavior especially on Valentine’s Day. February 13, 2017 In "Health" The Director General, National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA), Dr Gambo Aliyu has stressed the need for people to share love not HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). February 12, 2020 In "News" The National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) has advised Nigerians, especially youths, to “love wisely’’ as they prepare to celebrate Valentine’s Day on Feb. 14. February 12, 2018 In "News"