Argus Research raised its price target for shares of Tesla to $808 from $556, citing “continued revenue growth from the legacy Model S and Model X, as well as strong demand for the new Model 3.” “Despite past production delays, parts shortages, labor cost overruns, and other difficulties, we expect Tesla to benefit from its dominant position in the electric vehicle industry and to improve performance in 2020 and beyond.” A research firm called ARK Invest, meanwhile, said late Friday it expects the stock to be worth at least $7,000 and possibly as much as $15,000 by 2024, adding there’s “a 25 percent probability” the shares will be at the upper end of that range by then. Nelson told The Post that ARK’s five-year price target needs to be taken with “huge grain of salt,” and that investors should take care not to be swept up in the “euphoria.” “We think a pullback is overdue,” Nelson said. “In 12 months, we think the stock is going to be lower than where it is today.” Shares of Tesla have been on a tear despite predictions for a decline by numerous short sellers last year. The stock jumped more than 15 percent last week after the company delivered its second consecutive profitable quarter and said its Model Y compact SUV has begun “ahead of schedule.” Monday’s stock surge makes Tesla the second-most valuable car company in the world, with a $140.6 billion market capitalization that’s second only to Toyota’s. New York Post Vanguard News Shares of Tesla hit an all-time high on Tuesday, with the electric automaker’s stock on track to deliver its best quarterly performance in six years. The Elon Musk-led Tesla saw its stock rise more than 3 percent in intraday trading, hitting a new record of $394.83 on reports that it… December 19, 2019 In "Technology" Tesla accused an investor betting that its stock will fall of ginning up concerns about a safety defect that could plague about half a million of the company’s electric cars. Elon Musk’s high-tech automaker denied that its vehicles suffer from an “unintended acceleration” defect at the heart of a recent… January 21, 2020 In "Technology" Elon Musk’s electric car company is starting the new year off on a high note. Tesla’s stock price hit a fresh, all-time high Friday after its most recent vehicle deliveries beat expectations. Shares jumped 5.5 percent to a record $454 on the news that it delivered 112,000 vehicles in the fourth… January 4, 2020 In "Technology"