The United States President, Donald Trump who has been acquitted by the Republican-dominated Senate of all impeachment charges celebrated his victory with a short video displaying Trump “4EVA”. The US President, Trump, well-known for his vast use of Twitter to communicate his statements, few minutes after the Senate votes result published the short video. Despite being confronted with strong evidence, Republicans stayed loyal and mustered a majority of votes to clear the president of the two charges levied by the Democrat-dominated House — by 52 to 48 on the first, 53 to 47 on the second — falling far short of the two-thirds supermajority required for conviction. “Is the respondent, Donald John Trump, guilty or not guilty?” Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts, who is presiding over the trial, somberly asked the lawmakers as the chamber began voting on the first charge. “Two-thirds of the senators present not having pronounced him guilty, the Senate adjudges that respondent Donald John Trump, President of the United States, is not guilty as charged,” the Supreme Court Chief Justice said after the cast of votes. Vanguard News Nigeria. The US Senate Wednesday acquitted President Donald Trump of abuse of power, the first of two impeachment charges, following a historic two-week trial. The Republican-majority Senate voted 52-48 to acquit Trump of charges that he withheld military aid to Ukraine to pressure Kiev to investigate political rival Joe Biden and help his re-election effort.… February 5, 2020 In "Foreign" United States President, Donald Trump drew on staunch Republican support Wednesday to defeat the gravest threat yet to his three-year-old presidency, winning acquittal in the Senate on impeachment charges of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. Only the third US leader ever placed on trial, Trump readily defeated the… February 5, 2020 In "Foreign" With the United States House of Representatives racing toward an impeachment vote this week, President Donald Trump will likely become the third president to face a Senate trial to determine whether he should be removed from office,. The examples of Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton, who were both acquitted, offer insight into the… December 17, 2019 In "Foreign"