Nasarawa United Football Club side recorded another home win in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) on Sunday by defeating Enyimba International of Aba 2-0 at the Lafia Township Stadium. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 2019/2020 NPFL) Match Day 21 fixture saw hosts Nasarawa United playing with much more vigour to beat the Enyimba side. They opened scores in the 33rd minute through Chinedu Ohanachom who latched onto the ball parried away by the Enyimba goalkeeper to blast home from close range. In spite of the advantage, the home team attacked with more determination but failed to break down the Enyimba defence till the game went on break. In the second half, both teams came out with exciting attacking options but made no breakthrough till the 87th minute. Substitute Dauda Maigishiri received a decent pass from Haggai Katoh to place the ball in the right hand corner of the net to make it 2-0. Fatai Osho, the Head Coach of Enyimba, expressed disappointment over the loss but attributed it to a change in team selection due to their upcoming continental fixture. “We rested some players today (Sunday) bearing in mind we have to play that particular match, and I think in some form that affected our performance today. “But we have to congratulate Nasarawa United because they also worked hard for the victory,” he said. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Enyimba International Football Club of Aba on Sunday defeated Niger Tornadoes FC of Minna 3-0 in a Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) match at the U.J. Esuene Stadium in Calabar. July 9, 2017 In "News" Two sides with contrasting forms in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), Enyimba FC and Nasarawa United clash this Sunday in one of ten Matchday 22 fixtures. Enyimba FC heads to Lafia riding a wave of five wins from as many while Nasarawa has managed just a win in the… February 22, 2020 In "Sports" Reigning champions Enyimba needed not to reach second gear before seeing off Nasarawa United 3-1 in a rescheduled Match Day One game decided at the Enyimba International Stadium in Aba on Thursday. Midfielder Austin Oladapo scored a brace – the first and last goal of the encounter – with Samson… November 15, 2019 In "Sports"