West African powerhouse Nigeria on Monday called for a delay to the launch of a region-wide currency tentatively scheduled to come into effect this year. “Nigeria’s position on the Eco currency is that the convergence criteria have not been met by majority of the countries,” the country’s presidency said on Twitter. “There therefore has to be an extension of time on the take-off of the single currency.” West African regional bloc ECOWAS last year said it intended to introduce a common currency called the Eco in 2020. The announcement capped decades of discussions and postponements. But the push was then overshadowed in December by an announcement by mainly French-speaking countries in the region that they would rename their CFA franc joint currency as the Eco this year as they look to cut monetary ties with former colonial ruler France. English-speaking nations led by Africa’s most populous country Nigeria criticised that move and said it was not in line with the initiative for the broader currency. Nigeria has said that so far only one country in the region, Togo, has met a set of tough ECOWAS monetary and economic criteria to allow it to join the proposed currency. (AFP) Vanguard English-speaking West African countries on Thursday criticised a move to rename the CFA franc used by former French colonies, saying the move jarred with plans to introduce a region-wide currency of the same name. Members of the West African Monetary Zone (WAMZ) Convergence Council said they "noted with concern" the… January 17, 2020 In "News" Sever links to France Eight West African countries Saturday agreed to change the name of their common currency to Eco and severed the CFA franc's links to former colonial ruler France. The CFA franc was initially pegged to the French franc and has been linked to the euro for about… December 22, 2019 In "Foreign" The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) have said that the economic performance of Nigeria was crucial in realising the dream for a single currency in the West African region. November 12, 2017 In "News"