 Odion Ighalo insists he is just focussed on “working hard”, and says it is up to Ole Gunnar Solskjaer to decide whether to partner him with Anthony Martial up front for Manchester United. Ighalo made his second appearance for United as a second-half substitute against Club Brugge on Thursday night, replacing goalscorer Martial. The Nigerian also replaced Martial during United’s win at Stamford Bridge on Monday and was asked after the 1-1 draw with Brugge whether the pair could play alongside each other. “That is the decision of the coach,” Ighalo told the Manchester Evening News. “My job is just to work hard every day in training and, when called upon to help the team, I do so.” United face Ighalo’s former club Watford on Sunday and the Nigerian believes the time he spent at Vicarage Road will help him during his loan spell at Old Tafford. “I have played in Premier League before, I know what is required,” Ighalo said. “I know you have to be very strong and physical, get to hold some balls up for your team to push forwards, so I am working towards that. I am getting better and better. We have good players there. “Unfortunately, [Marcus] Rashford is injured, he is a good striker, sometimes he played from the side, so we will have to cope with that. I am happy whenever I am called upon to do anything, I am ready to go.” Ole Gunnar Solskjaer confirmed last week that United are open to signing Ighalo permanently and Ighalo said he would receptive to a longer-term move. “Of course [I would be willing to extend my stay], should I get the opportunity,” he said. Football 365 Vanguard News Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is happy to report that loan signing Odion Ighalo has already displayed his goalscoring abilities throughout his first training sessions as a Red. The Nigerian striker has joined the club from Shanghai Greenland Shenhua until the end of this season and made his anticipated… February 21, 2020 In "Sports" Former Super Eagles striker Odion Ighalo is in contention to make his European debut when Manchester United take on Club Brugge in a round of 32 Europa League match tonight. The Shanghai Greenland Shenhua loanee has been named in United’s provisional squad list by manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. Ighalo travelled… February 20, 2020 In "News" New Manchester United striker Odion Ighalo claims it's 'a dream come true' to move to Old Trafford, following his surprise transfer from Chinese Super League side Shanghai Greenland Shenhua on the last day of the transfer window. The 30-year-old's return to the Premier League was one of the most unexpected… February 2, 2020 In "Sports"