THE Nigeria Police Force headquarters said, yesterday, that its special operatives carrying out sustained mop-up at the operational bases of Ansaru Terrorists’ Group in Kuduru Forest, Birnin-Gwari, have arrested three more kingpins of the terror group. The arrest of the three— Munkailu Liman Isah, aka Babban Driver, 32; Abdullahi Saminu, aka Danmunafiki, 21; and Aminu Usman 22, brings the number of persons arrested to eight Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, who disclosed this, yesterday,  said: “The suspects are already assisting Police investigators with useful information relating to the membership, spread and make-up, criminal/operational records, logistics and general modus operandi of the terror group. ”Preliminary investigation revealed that the arrested suspects were actively involved in the recent attack and attempted kidnap of the Emir of Potiskum that resulted in the gruesome killing of the Emir’s Police escorts. “They were also involved in several other kidnap operations and terror attacks on commuters and other innocent citizens along some major highways, especially in the North-West and North Central states of the country. “Unfortunately, the investigation also revealed that some citizens, especially those within the business community, give tacit support to the terror groups by deliberately doing businesses with them through the supply of essential goods, drugs (licit/illicit) and other services. “To this end, the IGP has called for patriotism among the people, noting this is the only way the fight against the criminal elements can truly be won. “While Police operatives are on the close trail of other fleeing members of the terror group and their collaborators, the IGP has expressed immense appreciation to all and sundry, especially the good people of Birnin-Gwari and environs for their understanding, cooperation and support which have resulted in the measure of successes recorded so far, particularly in the fight against terrorism, banditry and other heinous crimes in the country.” Vanguard The Nigeria Police Force said on Thursday two wanted terror commanders were killed and three terrorists arrested when its operatives raided Ansaru group’s camp in Kaduna, Wednesday. The Force Spokesman, Frank Mba, who disclosed this in a statement, said a police inspector was also killed and 13 other policemen injured… February 6, 2020 In "News" kill over 250 terrorists, bandits As group shoots at Police helicopter with GPMG Against the backdrop of the formation of a new terrorist group, Ansaru who had been mobilising and terrorising Nigerians in the North West, Police Special Forces, backed by helicopters have attacked their camp in Birnin Gwari forest… February 6, 2020 In "News" Special Operatives of Operation Puff Adder of the Nigeria Police backed by the Special Forces of the Police Airwing, in a daring offensive operation, stormed one of the largest operational camps of the Ansaru Terror Group (also housing other bandits and kidnappers) located in Kuduru Forest, Birnin Gwari, Kaduna State… February 5, 2020 In "News"