Commissioner of health in Kaduna state, Dr. Amina Mohammed Baloni has confirmed a new case of Lassa Fever in the state. She said a 40-year-old male with the fever, was recorded on Friday, February 21st,  2020 at the ABUTH, Zaria and was receiving treatment at the IDCC. ” This brings to 2 the number of confirmed cases receiving treatment at the IDCC at the moment,” she said. Baloni, on Saturday, said so far, Kaduna State had recorded a total of eight (8) confirmed cases since the outbreak on the  22nd, January 2020,  out of the seventy-four (74) suspected cases so far. “Out of the eight(8 )confirmed cases, the first patient has died due to late presentation, while the 2nd and 3rd cases have been cured, affirmed negative and discharged home. However,  the 4th and 5th cases were diagnosed after they had died.’ “Similarly, the 6th case had travelled from Ebonyi State and is receiving treatment at the Infectious Disease Control Centre (IDCC). In addition,   the 7th, who is also deceased, had travelled from Kebbi State  but died while on admission  at Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital(ABUTH), Zaria,  before being diagnosed.” In view of the new cases, the commissioner advised the general public to further ensure that all cases of fevers were tested for malaria before treatment. “Furthermore, people should immediately report anyone with the Lassa Fever disease symptoms,  for early treatment. Above all,  residents of Kaduna State are advised to  continue  maintaining a high level of personal hygiene and environmental sanitation.” “Kaduna State Ministry of Health is continuing its sensitization, via radio jingles,  on preventive measures, active case searches, and contact listing,  to further curtail the spread of the disease.  Lassa Fever can be treated and it is indeed curable,” she said. vanguard The Kaduna State Ministry of Health has confirmed a fresh case of Lassa fever in a 34-year old man in Kajuru Local Government Area of the state. The Commissioner of Health, Dr. Amina Mohammed-Baloni, confirmed the case in a statement on Saturday in Kaduna. Baloni disclosed that the state had… February 1, 2020 In "Health" As 7 doctors, 5 nurses quarantined in Adamawa By Demola Akinyemi, Shina Abubakar, Gabriel Olawale & Ike Uchechukwu Four persons have been confirmed dead in Taraba State just as Kaduna State announced the death of 36-year-old man on Monday following the outbreak of Lassa fever in the country. According to… January 28, 2020 In "Health" Commiserating with families of Nigerians who died during the current outbreak, the NMA said two Nigerian doctors have lost their lives in Kano. Lassa fever, an acute viral hemorrhagic fever, has continued to rage like bush fire, spreading into many communities across the country. According to the Nigerian Centre… February 2, 2020 In "Health"