Schools and Banks were today shut as the burial of Eze Isreal Kanu and his wife, Ugoeze Sally; parents of the Leader of the Indigenous People of Biafrans, IPOB, holds in Umuahia. A large crowd of people was observed at the Kanu family house preparing for the ceremony. Some suspected supporters of the IPOB were seen chanting songs were also observed along Factory road leading to the family house. No security personnel was sighted in the However, a police van was stationed at the Factory road junction. The security post has been there since the operation python dance exercise in 2017. Among the early callers at the church service for the burial was the former Governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi and the Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe. In an interview with Vanguard, Leader of the Movement for the Sovereign States of Biafra, MASSOB, Comrade Uchenna Madu, said pro Biafrans groups had come to pay their last respect to Eze Kanu and his wife. He blamed the Commissioner of Police, Abia State, Mr.Ene Okon, for the tension over the burial and assured that the event would be peaceful. In his words,”We are here to pay our last respect to Nnamdi Kanu’s parents, Eze Isreal Kanu and his wife, Ugoeze Sally. It is a traditional burial, not a Biafra activity. You can see that everywhere is peaceful. I blame the Commissioner of Police, Abia State for the tension over the burial. But we assure that there will be no problem.” vanguard As Afaraukwu kinsmen of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, prepare for the burial of their traditional ruler, Eze Okwu Kanu, and his wife, Ugoeze Sally Kanu, there are speculations on whether Kanu will return home from the United Kingdom (UK) to pay his… January 26, 2020 In "News" Amnesty International has said the Army, police, other security agents and the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, must exercise restraint at today’s funeral of IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu’s parents. February 14, 2020 In "News" By Ugochukwu Alaribe Ahead of next Friday’s burial of the parents of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, there is palpable tension in his community, Afaraukwu, Abia State over the likely presence of soldiers. This fear was mainly precipitated by an earlier visit of security agents to… February 9, 2020 In "News"