THE Presidency on Sunday berated the Northern Elders Forum, NEF, saying that it does not have any credible membership. The Presidency in a statement signed by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina described the association as a one-man show that is like a general without troops which revolves on Prof. Ango Abdullahi. Adesina noted that the group had before the 2019 presidential elections expressed its hatred for President Muhammadu Buhari, adding that the candidate NEF supported in the election suffered defeat. The statement read, “Professor Ango Abdullahi on Sunday signed a long-winding statement on many issues relating to the North, and purportedly to the country. READ ALSO: Northern Elders Forum, CNGs order herdsmen out of South ” The former vice-chancellor signed the statement under the banner of Northern Elders Forum (NEF). Hearing that title, you would think the body was a conglomeration of true elders. “But the truth is that NEF is just Ango Abdullahi, and Ango Abdullahi is NEF. It is a quasi-organization that boasts of no credible membership, and its leader is akin to a General without troops. ” Before the 2019 presidential election, the one-man army called NEF had shown its antipathy against President Muhammadu Buhari, and its preference for another candidate. They all got beaten together.” Continuing, Adesina said, “NEF is merely waving a flag that is at half-mast. President Buhari steadily and steadfastly focuses on the task of retooling Nigeria, and discerning Nigerians know the true state of the nation. They don’t need a paper tiger to tell them anything. VANGUARD Former Senate President, Ameh Ebute, has replied the convener of Northern Elders’ Forum, NUF, Professor Ango Abdullahi, on his recent assertion that the region will not vote President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 presidential election. December 12, 2018 In "News" Angry words flowed yesterday as regional socio-political groups yesterday blasted the Northern Elders Forum, NEF,  and Coalition of Northern Groups for calling on Fulani herdsmen to leave the southern part of the country and return to the north. July 18, 2019 In "Headlines" The Presidency has taken a swipe at socio-cultural groups like the Northern Elders Forum, NEF, the Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, and leaders of other groups over their plot for the replacement of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration over perceived incompetence. July 21, 2018 In "News"