For almost two weeks now, Professor Hope Eghagha of the Department of English, University of Lagos, has been talking to, and encouraging, youths on the importance of education, self-development and honing of innate skills on our URS social platform. The responses of the youths have been divergent. Some of the responses are from very bitter hearts, youngsters who felt let down by the system. They went to school with high expectations, but on graduation, there are no jobs. Some have been unemployed for years now. Initially, some of the negative responses really got me upset, but on second thought, I sat back and felt, maybe I should interrogate education and that is what I am going to do today. A brief definition of education in an online dictionary says education is “the process of receiving or giving systematic instruction, especially at a school or university.” Wikipedia defines education as “the process of facilitating learning, or the acquisition of knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, and habits.” I will start my interrogation with the first definition. What kind of “systematic instruction” are our schools and universities giving? What schools currently teach is archaic and not in tune with current realities. Our “systematic instruction” is not up to date and very unhelpful to the students and society. Big organisations currently send fresh graduate employees on six to one-year training before they are absolved into the organisations. The school curricula need to be overhauled to meet up with current realities and our peculiar circumstances. The definition also said “receiving and giving systematic instruction.” If the “giving” is defective, the “receiving” will naturally be defective. But there is a remedy. The doors to acquiring education and knowledge have never been more wide-open than we have now, since the creation of humankind. Knowledge is everywhere and available at the touch of a button on your phone, laptop, iPad, etc. the younger generation will not understand what it took to acquire university education in the 70s and 80s. In the university then, you would need a book in the library for reference purposes, but someone would “colonize” it, sometimes for weeks. Meanwhile, you need this book for an urgent assignment. It is the same information you now get at the touch of a button in the comfort of your home. In one sentence, students now have windows to acquire more knowledge to augment what they are taught in class. Now, let us interrogate Wikipedia’s definition, which talks about “the acquisition of knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, and habits.” What knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, and habits are schools giving to our children? The answer varies from one institution to the other; from private to government-owned schools, but the popular verdict is that the educational system is not good enough. The question now is that since it is not good enough, what are you as a person doing to help yourself? The starting point is, who are you? I can tell you that many young people do not know who they are. And since they do not know who they are, they do not know what they want in life. Before you can make any meaning of life, you must find your purpose, which is already inherent. “What is purpose? Purpose is why you do something, or why something exists. Before you engage in any activity there should be a good reason for doing it, which should form part of the larger picture of your purpose in life. All your actions are supposed to emanate from your vision. Your visions are dots, which connect to unravel your mission in life. Your mission is a product of your purpose. Purpose comes from the belief that the individual is uniquely designed to fulfill a special destiny. You have a destiny for which you were created. Vanguard News For almost two weeks now, Professor Hope Eghagha of the Department of English, University of Lagos, has been talking to, and encouraging, youths on the importance of education, self-development and honing of innate skills… on our URS social platform. February 1, 2020 In "Marriage and Family" I intend to work with all the three tiers of government; Federal, State, and Local Governments, to raise as much as N100 million, so as to enable me institute a foundation for girl-child education so that our young girls can access quality education up to tertiary level. March 7, 2015 In "Entertainment" The Edo State Government has condemned the attack on the Headmaster of Uwa Primary School, Mr. S. I. Imafidon, assuring the school and residents in the area that the state is on top of the situation. October 12, 2017 In "News"