Road users on Ikorodu/Mile 12 Road in Lagos State, Tuesday, had a bitter experience accessing the axis, following the traffic congestion in the axis occasioned by a broken-down truck at Ketu. Eyewitnesses’ account said the yet-to-be-identified truck laden with iron rods broke down at about 4.30am, under the pedestrian bridge thereby obstructing the free flow of traffic which lasted for hours. It was gathered that as at 7am, efforts by traffic officials to tow the vehicle was aborted as two towing vehicles brought to the scene were of less capacity. As if that was not enough, a High Capacity Vehicle (HCV), also broke down at Mile 12 Underbridge, at about 7.45am, thereby compounding the traffic situation. As at 8am, the gridlock had stretched to Majidun from Ketu Underbridge as motorists and commuters were trapped in the traffic. Our Correspondent gathered that some commuters who could not withstand the situation resorted to trekking while others had to reschedule their appointments. Speaking with our Correspondent, some commuters urged Lagos State Government to be proactive on emergency matters saying the traffic situation was worsened due to non-availability of standard towing vehicles. As at 9.10am, the traffic situation remained unresolved although the HCV at Mile 12 had been towed from the scene but road users were seen lamenting the situation. Speaking with Vanguard, a stranded commuter Mr Wale Olorunnisola bemoaned the lackadaisical attitude of emergency workers in the state saying, “Since 4.30am. I expect government officials to have removed the truck but no way. We need state emergency workers who don’t close at night. I know if the truck is not removed by 10am, it will be hell for commuters in the axis.” VANGUARD Close to a month now, the Apapa axis from Second Rainbow, a bus-stop along the Mile 2/Apapa expressway down to Tincan Island and environs in Lagos have been witnessing a worst situation of traffic snarl. March 14, 2014 In "Special Report" Time was 6pm at the traffic-busy, indeed chaotic, Mile 2 area of Lagos. A mammoth horde of fuel tankers and other articulated trucks has as usual taken over every inch of driving space, thus impeding the flow of traffic along the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway from the Second Rainbow Bus-stop all the… April 27, 2016 In "Metro" AS Nigerians intensify preparations for the Christmas and the New Year celebrations, the dreaded traffic nightmare is back on Lagos roads. Once again, it is lamentation time for motorists and other road users who are already writhing in pain and counting their losses as activities associated with the festive season… December 21, 2018 In "News"