Justice John Olorunfemi of Kogi State High Court sitting in Lokoja, on Thursday, ruled that the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, had no candidate in the November 16, 2019 governorship election in the state. Olorunfemi in the ruling declared that the party primary conducted on the 3rd September 2019, which produced Engr. Musa Wada as the PDP flagbearer was fraught with irregularities, such that an hour-long downpour and sporadic gunshots, which led to the delegates scampering for safety, cannot be said to be fair enough to produce a candidate. The ruling was in a preelection matter filed by the eldest son of a former governor of the state, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris (Into), Abubakar Idris, challenging the candidature of Wada, a younger brother of another former governor of the state, Capt. Idris Wada, as the PDP flagbearer in the November 16, 2019 governorship election. According to him: “Neither the claimant, Alhaji Abubakar Idris nor the defendant, Engr. Musa Wada can lay claim to being the authentic flagbearer of the Peoples Democratic Party since the primary was inconclusive. He pointed out that the claimant who averred that he would have won the primary conducted by the 1st defendant if the missing votes which belonged to him were added to his votes, could not convince the court to deliver judgement in his favour. Similarly, Justice Olorunfemi further submitted that the second defendant could not convince the court that he actually won the party primary, which was marred with rancour and acrimony, arising from pandemonium, due to sporadic gunshots, that compelled the participants to scamper for safety.” Vanguard Nigeria News Ahead of the November 16 governorship election in Kogi state, the quest by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, to wrestle power from the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, got a boost today following the acceptance of Ibrahim Idris, a former governor of the state, to chair the campaign council. September 21, 2019 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party screening committee, Wednesday, cleared former governor Captain Idris Wada (retd), Senator Dino Melaye and Abubakar Idris for the September 3 Kogi governorship primaries ahead of the November 16 election. August 21, 2019 In "News" With the successful conclusion of the APC governorship primary in Kogi State, attention has shifted to the battle of wits in what analysts are already tipping as the 2011 rematch between Gov. Idris Wada and a former AFRIBANK chief, Alhaji Isah Jibrin Echocho. Both gladiators are from Dekina Local Government… September 3, 2015 In "Politics"