A Federal High Court sitting in Ilorin, Monday, granted N200 million bail to the immediate past Commissioner for Finance in Kwara State, Alhaji Ademola Banu. Banu is standing trial for allegedly laundering over N400 million. This came as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ilorin Zonal, arrested 30 years old Festus Akinyemi Abiona, indicted by the Federal Bureau of Investigations, FBI, over alleged internet fraud. The Ilorin Zonal Office of EFCC had on January 29, 2020 arraigned Banu and one Olarewaju Adeniyi before Justice Babangana Ashigar’s court on a nine count charge over alleged money laundering. ALSO READ: Obono-Obla still wanted, must clear his name ―ICPC Ruling on the bail application, Justice Ashigar said the first and second defendants were admitted to bail in the sum of N200 million with one surety in like sum. According to him, “the surety is to have a landed property in Ilorin and must submit the certificate of occupancy (C of Os) to the registrar of this honourable Court which should be verified by the EFCC.” The judge ordered the accused persons to deposit their international passports, including other travel documents, and must not travel out of the country without the permission of the court pending the hearing and determination of the case. Justice Ashigar equally ordered the defendants to remain in the custody of the EFCC in Ilorin until they had perfect their bail conditions, and adjourned till February 24, 2020 for the commencement of trial. Meanwhile, EFCC in a statement issued by the spokesman of the commission, Mr Wilson Uwujaren, on the arrest of the FBI-wanted suspect, reads in part: “Abiona had been on the wanted list of the Commission for more than eight months over the alleged fraud case before luck ran against him and was finally arrested in his hideout. “’The anti-graft body was able to fish him out last week Wednesday, February 6, 2020 in his duplex in Arepo, Ogun State, despite the fact that he has refused to step out of his house since he got wind of the EFCC/FBI case for the past five months because of fear of  arrest.” Vanguard By Demola Akinyemi - Ilorin The immediate past Commissioner for Finance in Kwara state, Engr Demola Banu was on Wednesday ordered to be remanded in the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) by an Ilorin High Court over allegations that border on money laundering. Banu was arraigned… January 29, 2020 In "News" Four officials of Kwara state government accused of money laundering by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) were Monday admitted to bail before a Federal High Court sitting in Ilorin. May 13, 2019 In "News" Ahead of tomorrow’s governorship election in 29 states, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has arrested a dozen of top government officials in Imo and Kwara states for surreptitious withdrawal of over N2 billion for alleged vote-buying to ensure the victory of their preferred candidates. March 8, 2019 In "News"