Facebook postings have put a 34-year-old businessman, Wende Felix, in trouble. He was arraigned before a Lagos Magistrate’s Court sitting in Igbosere, Monday, for posting the nude pictures of his ex-girlfriend and her baby’s picture on Facebook, claiming that he is the father of the baby.
He also allegedly collected N350,000 from his ex-girlfriend, with a promise not to expose her nude pictures on Facebook.
The defendant, whose address was not given, is facing a three-count charge of fraud, posting of pictures on Facebook and breach of peace preferred against him by the police.
The prosecutor, Inspector Rosemary Ehimegbe, told the court that the defendant committed the offence between 2018 and 2019, at 24, Durosimi Etti Street, Lekki Phase 1, in Lagos. Ehimegbe said the defendant fraudulently collected N350,000 from the complainant, one Elizabeth Olateju, under the guise that he will not expose her nude pictures, but still went ahead to do so.
She said he conducted himself in a manner likely to cause a breach of peace, by posting the complainant’s baby’s pictures on his Facebook page and WhatsApp status, without her consent. ALSO READ:Actress Bimbo Akinsanya reveals reasons behind short-lived marriage(Opens in a new browser tab)
The prosecutor said the defendant published the pictures of Olateju and her baby in a manner likely to provoke breach of peace.
According to her, the offence committed is punishable under Sections 314, 168 (d) and 57 (a) of the criminal law of Lagos State, 2015.
However, the defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge.
The magistrate, Mrs. M. O. Osinbajo, granted him N50,000 bail, with two sureties in like sum.
She said the defendant must provide a means of identification such as a national ID card, show evidence of three years tax payment to the Lagos State government and have their addresses verified.
The case was adjourned till February 5, for mention. Vanguard A 35-year-old man, Michael Atanda, who specialised in blackmailing lovers by threatening to display their nude pictures on social media, especially Facebook, if they refused to pay his monetary demands, has been arrested by operatives of Rapid Response Squad, RRS, of Lagos State Police Command. November 14, 2016 In "News" A 28-year-old man, Abdul-Salam Wasiu, on Wednesday appeared in a Badagry Chief Magistrates’ Court, Lagos State, for allegedly posting a fake picture of an insane girl inside a gutter on Facebook. April 30, 2019 In "News" In today’s contemporary world nudity is celebrated in almost every sector, from the music videos to advertorials September 24, 2016 In "Love Zone"