Nollywood legend, Chiwetalu Agu has debunked rumours trending on social media that he is critically sick and needs financial assistance to get treatment. Chiwetalu Agu on Saturday confirmed on his Instagram page that he is hale and hearty, urging his fans to disregard foolish posts on Facebook requesting money on his behalf. Agu wrote on Instagram: “Good morning my people 
Please disregard any foolish post on Facebook by anybody saying am SICK and SOLICITING for MONEY, I’m in a perfect good health condition, I will never ask anybody for A DIME neither am I on FACEBOOK.
Signed Chief Chiwetalu Agu”   Good morning my people  Please disregard any foolish post on Facebook by anybody saying am SICK and SOLICITING for MONEY, I’m in a perfect good health condition, i will never ask anybody for A DIME neither am I on FACEBOOK. Signed Chief Chiwetalu Agu A post shared by  Chief Chiwetalu Agu (@chiwetaluagu) on Feb 21, 2020 at 10:31pm PST  Movie producer, Mike Nliam also took to his Facebook to confirm that Agu is alive and is not soliciting for money. Nliam described the 63-year-old as a “gifted legendary who probably holds the world record in awards, honours and recognition.” “My good friend and big brother Chiwetalu Agu said I should tell you to disregard the wicked rumour that has gone viral about his demise…,” he wrote. Vanguard Nigeria News Tinsel star and Nollywood actor Gideon Okeke took to his Instagram page to bash veteran actor Chiwetalu Agu for his incessant use of vulgar slangs in his movies. January 12, 2017 In "Entertainment" I was born on 5th March 1956 in Enugu and named Christian Ogbonna Chiwetalu Agu. It was fashionable to be COC Agu just like MI Okpara or KO Mbadiwe or COC Chiedozie, famous school administrator.    I attended Ogui Primary School, Ogui, Enugu, from 1962 to 1967. August 18, 2018 In "Entertainment" Today, God has compensated me and I am a father of five children. Some of my mates who married before me, and were doing well then, are today sending their children to me for help. This is the irony of life February 3, 2019 In "Entertainment"