Hon. Ojo Omolewa, Caretaker Committee Chairman of Ese-Odo Local Government council of Ondo State, has emerged the flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the coming local government elections in the state. The election, held at Igbekebo town hall in the council headquarters on Friday, had Omolewa polling 199 votes to defeat Mr Messiah Allen, who came distant second with seven votes. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Messrs Omolere Ojigi and Richard Omosehin both came third with five votes apiece. Announcing the results, Mr Samuel Ajayi, the party Chairman in the local government, commended all the aspirants for their peaceful conduct. Ajayi advised those who lost at the primaries to work with the winner to ensure that the party emerged victorious in the forthcoming local government election to be conducted by the state Independent Electoral Commission (ODIEC). Also, Mr Richard Kekemeke, a party leader in Arogbo ward of the local government, said that he was particularly happy that the election was conducted in an orderly manner, urging the winner to be magnanimous in victory. Reacting to his victory, Omolewa, who commended party delegates for their orderly conduct, promised not to betray the trust reposed in him. Omolewa said that the party chairman in Ese-Odo was directed by the state secretariat to conduct the election with the agreement of other aspirants. “I appreciate the good people of Ese Odo. With the confidence reposed in me, I will not disappoint them. “It’s like they are putting their future in my hands. I will make sure I add value to their lives in the council area,” he said. Mrs Feyintola Ogunsipe, the representative of ODIEC for Ese-Odo, lauded the security agents and the delegates for conducting themselves in a peaceful manner. NAN recalls that ODIEC had set April 18 for the conduct of elections into the 18 local government councils in the state. NAN also recalls that Mr Ade Adetimehin, the state APC Chairman, had said that the party was committed to maintaining internal democracy. Meanwhile, the main opposition party in the state, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has vowed not to participate in the April 18 council polls. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. THE Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday picked their deputy governorship candidates ahead of the November 26 election. October 13, 2016 In "Politics" WITH the victory of Ondo State Governor-elect, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, in last Saturday’s election, power will return to the Owo axis of the state when Governor Olusegun Mimiko, quits in February 2017. The last time an Owo person governed the state was in 1983 during the era of late… November 28, 2016 In "News" WITH ferocious intensity, the All Progressives Congress (APC), yesterday, swept into its kitty most of the 29 governorship seats contested at the weekend. The huge victory has catapulted the party to the enviable position of the dominant party in Nigeria. April 13, 2015 In "Headlines"