Israel denied entry to dozens of foreign nationals who landed on flights from Italy on Thursday, as the Jewish state discouraged travel as part of efforts to contain the spread of the new coronavirus. The interior ministry had announced travellers from Italy would not be granted entry, adding it to a list of barred countries including Japan, South Korea, Thailand and Singapore as well as Macau and Hong Kong. Three flights originating from Italy then landed at Tel Aviv’s Ben Gurion airport. Twenty-five foreign nationals, including 19 Italians, who landed on the flight from Bergamo were denied entry and will be flown back, the interior ministry said. Another 23 foreigners on an Easy Jet flight from Italy were also blocked from entering, a ministry spokeswoman said. The Jewish state has also taken the rare step of discouraging its citizens from travelling abroad. “Travel to conferences and other international congregations should be avoided, including trips to religious events where people from many countries gather,” the health ministry said. Israel has recorded three confirmed cases of the COVID-19 virus, including two from the Diamond Princess cruise ship and an Israeli who had been in northern Italy. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. China’s Foreign Ministry has blasted the U.S. government for restricting the entry of Chinese nationals due to the coronavirus outbreak, which this week was declared a global health emergency by the World Health Organization. February 3, 2020 In "Foreign" China’s Foreign Ministry has blasted the U.S. government for restricting the entry of Chinese nationals due to the coronavirus outbreak, which this week was declared a global health emergency by the World Health Organization. February 2, 2020 In "News" Kenyan authorities have cleared 239 passengers who arrived at the capital's main international airport on Wednesday aboard a China Southern Airlines flight. All the passengers were screened on board and allowed to enter the country moments after the aircraft landed at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi. The ministry of… February 27, 2020 In "News"