When Kem Senou Pavel Daryl, a 21-year-old Cameroonian student living in the Chinese city of Jingzhou, contracted the coronavirus he had no intention of leaving China, even if that were possible. “No matter what happens I don’t want to take the sickness back to Africa,” he said from his university dormitory, where he is now under a 14-day quarantine. He was suffering from a fever, a dry cough, and flu-like symptoms. When he became ill he thought of his time as a child in Cameroon when he contracted malaria. He feared the worse. “When I was going to the hospital for the first time I was thinking about my death and how I thought it was going to happen,” he said. For 13 days he remained in isolation in a local Chinese hospital. He was treated with antibiotics and drugs typically used to treat HIV patients. After two weeks of care he began to show signs of recovery. The CT scan showed no trace of the illness. He became the first African person known to be infected with the deadly coronavirus and the first to recover. His medical care was covered by the Chinese state. Egypt has become the first country in Africa to confirm a case of the coronavirus. Health professionals warn that countries with weaker health systems may struggle to cope with a potential outbreak of the illness, which has led to more than 1,770 deaths and infected more than 72,000 people, mostly in China. “I don’t want to go home before finishing studying. I think there is no need to return home because all hospital fees were taken care of by the Chinese government,” says Mr Senou. BBC Vanguard Nigeria News LASG debunks rumour of suspected case in Alimosho LGA By Sola Ogundipe The World  Health Organisation, WHO has called for caution against the spread of panic  over the coronavirus outbreak in China and other affected countries. The WHO, which is  tackling misinformation over the coronavirus outbreak had declared the oubreak… February 10, 2020 In "Health" LASG debunks rumour of suspected case in Alimosho LGA By Sola Ogundipe THE World Health Organisation, WHO has called for caution against the spread of panic over the coronavirus outbreak in China and other affected countries. The WHO, which is tackling misinformation over the coronavirus outbreak, had declared the outbreak… February 10, 2020 In "Features" Health officials are dealing with a suspected case of coronavirus in the Ivory Coast, the country’s health ministry has announced. An unnamed student, a 34-year-old woman,  currently in isolation,  returned to the West African country from Beijing on Saturday. Officials said, if confirmed, the woman who is undergoing further tests… January 28, 2020 In "Health"