Huawei is expected to launch its Digital Oilfield IOT Solution NIPS2020. Nigeria is one of the largest and oldest oil producers in Africa. The oil and gas sector is one of the most important sectors in the country’s economy, accounting for more than 90% of the country’s exports and 80% of the Federal Government’s revenue. The Digital Oilfield IOT Solution has been proven to help oil and gas companies to achieve 2% to 7% more yields, 5% to 9% higher recovery rate, and 5% to 20% less costs, which is also expected to bring growth to Nigeria oil and gas industry. Huawei Digital Oilfield IOT Solution is based on the 4G eLTE technology which will help the oilfield to realize the full wireless network coverage and connection of things and people. This will enable Oil and Gas companies monitor the running efficiency of production facilities in real-time, optimize production management approaches and organizational structure, increase work efficiency, reduce labor costs, and possess strong data support for more effective decision-making. Speaking about the launch, Huawei Nigeria Enterprise Managing Director (Abuja office), Tank Li, stated that the IoT is an essential element of digital oilfields, Huawei IOT solution can support Nigeria oil and gas companies to achieve visualized production, Efficient Collaboration and HSE Management. All these will also help accelerate the move towards an all-digital oilfield and contribute to the digital transformation of oil and gas industries. The NIPS2020 event will hold for three days 10th – 12th, February 2020. The President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, will open the event at the NICON Luxury Hotel by 10am on the 10th of February, 2020. Meanwhile, the rest of the event between will hold at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja, Nigeria. Huawei has proposed “Leading New ICT, Enabling Digital Oil &Gas” as its keynote theme and cooperates with industry partners to launch ICT solutions covering the upstream, midstream, and downstream sectors to combine digital production with safety control and improve productivity. These innovative ICT solutions include oil and gas IoT, E&P Data Management, Cloud& operations management and other leading technologies. To date, Huawei’s oil and gas solutions have been applied in 45 countries and regions around the world, serving 70 per cent of the global top 20 oil and gas companies. Huawei Activities at the NIPS2020 will include: Huawei keynote speech of “Huawei Digital Oil & Gas Solution” on the technology session by 12:20-13:00, 10th Feb 2020; Huawei Digital Oil & Gas solution workshop and  Digital Oilfield IOT Joint Solution Launch at the ICC, Abuja, 14:00-16:00, 11th  Feb 2020. Huawei’s Solution exhibition Stand to be located at B27 will be open to all special guests and the general audience attending the event. VANGUARD Technology continues to evolve at a record pace, causing oil and gas producers to increasingly rely on a secure, robust communication network to support exploration, production, and wellhead operations. Transitioning to a digital oilfield is paramount for these companies to help realize and establish an effective connected enterprise and continue… May 6, 2015 In "Energy" Resourcery Plc, a systems integrating company and its networking partners, Cisco have advised to oil and gas executives to embrace videon solutions to improve their operations. This advise was given at a one-day business seminar or business executives in the Oil and Gas sector. July 29, 2013 In "Business" “Digital transformation is top of mind for executives in the oil and gas industry, which is why we built the centre of excellence in the Middle East,” Omar Saleh, director for Oil and Gas at Microsoft, Middle East and Africa, said, adding that, “For the industry to transform, companies need… June 20, 2016 In "News"