Chairman of the Bauchi State Football Association, Patrick Pascal, has called for more Private sector involvement in the running of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) to improve the standard of the league. The ex-international told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Abuja that the move was imperative to change the structure and sponsorship drive of the league. He decried the fact that most of the NPFL clubs are being run by state governments, a situation he described as ”archaic and unacceptable” in the 21st century. “For me the structure and set up of our league needs to change. The private sector and companies need to come in and run the clubs more professionally and make a profit. ” Today most clubs owned by state governments are being run like a charity organisation, we cannot continue like this,” he said. The chairman also called for better sponsorship, remuneration, officiating and television coverage for the league to be at per with other foreign leagues in Africa and Europe Pascal who is also the Super Eagles Team Coordinator stressed the need for the domestic players to establish themselves in the league before travelling abroad. He insists, that it is better for the players to play and be noticed in the NPFL by national team handlers than travelling to some obscure countries in middle-east without football culture. “We need to make sure our best players in the league are not travelling abroad after every season due to poor remuneration. ” I can tell you some of our players are suffering abroad, some are even scouting because of bad contracts, so instead of going out in a hurry, make sure you play well here before making any move, ” he said. He called on the management of the NPFL, football stakeholders and the private sector to urgently organise a round table on funding and moving the league forward in line with international best practice. NAN reports that most of the clubs in the NPFL are currently run by state governments without proper structure and funding. The NPFL is currently without a title and broadcast sponsor despite efforts of the League Management Company (LMC). Vanguard NASD OTC Plc, the over-the-counter securities exchange that facilitates secondary market transaction in unlisted securities in Nigeria, has entered into agreement with the League Management Company, LMC, to repackage Nigeria Professional Football League, NPFL, clubs and make them commercially viable for listing on the NASD platform. Following the Memorandum of… July 17, 2016 In "Business" FORMER Chairman of the League Management Company of Nigeria (LMC) Honourable Nduka Irabor and Chairman Kano Pillars, Alhaji Tukor Babangida have commended ground breaking event of the presentation of nine clubs to the Nigerian stock exchange in Lagos. April 5, 2017 In "Sports" The League Management Company (LMC) in partnership with over the counter securities market operator, NASD Securities Exchange took a major step towards bringing private sector investment into the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) when on Monday, March 13; financial advisors were invited to bid for appointment to work with eight… March 15, 2017 In "Sports"