Nigerian billionaire Mr. Femi Otedola has paid a surprise visit to the cast and crew of ‘Citation’, a new movie by award-winning filmmaker, Kunle Afolayan. Femi Otedola who was at the Obafemi Awolowo University campus, Ile-Ife,  Osun State where the movie is currently being shot, noted that his mission was to see what the making of a film looks like, adding that his new interest would be to support the fast-growing Nigerian movie industry. The billionaire whose daughter Temi Otedola is playing a lead role in the college drama was joined by another VIP visitor and cinematographer, Tunde Kelani on set of the movie. READ ALSO: The Sardauna of our era The much much-advertised movie is expected to move locations to Senegal and the beautiful Island of Cape Verde in a couple of weeks. Exploring a subject of social decadence in the educational sector, the movie is about a female postgraduate student who has to find a way of dealing with the awkward situation of sexual harassment from a lecturer. Boasting an ensemble of A-list actors of diverse nationalities, cast of the movie include veteran Nigerian actress and director, Joke Silvia; Haitian-French actor and model, Jimmy Jean-Louis; delectable Nigerian actress, Ini Edo; UK-based Nigerian fashion and lifestyle blogger, Temi Otedola; notable Nigerian actor, Yomi Fash-Lanso; Ghanaian actor, Adjetey Anang; Nigerian actor and singer, Gabriel Afolayan; man of Ivorian theatre, Bienvenu Neba; veteran broadcaster and actor, Sadiq Daba; upcoming Nollywood actress, Bukunmi Oluwashina; French-Ivorian actor and screenwriter, Raymond Reboul; theatre educator, Toyin Bifarin; and veteran Nigerian film director and actor, Wole Olowomojuore, aka ‘Baba Gebu’. VANGUARD Billionaire businessman and Chairman of Forte Plc, Mr. Femi Otedola, paid a surprise visit to ailing football legend Christian Chukwu at his Wellington Hospital, Circus Road, St John's Woods London, yesterday. May 22, 2019 In "News" Since Mr. Eazi went public about his romance with Temi Otedola, daughter of billionaire oil mogul, Femi Otedola, there have been speculations that the ‘Leg Over’ hit maker may be eying her father’s wealth, a reason he regularly flaunts her on social media. January 25, 2019 In "Entertainment" By Omeiza Ajayi Billionaire, Femi Otedola, has donated N5 billion to the Cuppy Foundation to support the Save the Children charity in Northeast. This is just as Africa's richest man, Aliko Dangote, donated a N100 million to the course. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has called on Nigerians irrespective of their wealth… November 11, 2019 In "News"