Former Chief Security Officer (CSO) to the late military head of State, General Sani Abacha (retd), Major Hamza Al-Mustapha, has disclosed that were it not for the prayers of the founder and general overseer of the Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Movement, Pastor Lazarus Muoka, he would have died in prison. Al-Mustapha who was the special guest at the 17th anniversary of the church said Pastor Muoka brought the message of Christ to him when he was in prison through the pastor’s intercessory prayers for him. He said though he is a Muslim, hen has continued to identify with the programmes and activities of the church which were very spiritually enriching. The former CSO, who was represented at the event by the President of the Council of Bishops in Nigeria and Niger Delta Bishops and Ministers Forum, His Eminence, Archbishop Julius Ebiwe, said the prayers and messages of the Chosen pastor were so powerful and urged him not to deviate. “Continue in that message, God is with you. All of us will meet in heaven. Continue to pray for me, pray for the whole country, Nigeria,” Al-Mustapha requested, noting that the miracle he received in the country was by the prayers of Pastor Muoka. “It’s Chosen that caused the miracle.” Responding, Muoka, who was humbled by the encomiums, said: “I want to specially appreciate your coming. We are happy to have you here. God bless you”. Vanguard Mgbidi—CHIEF Security Officer to late General Sani Abacha, Major  Hamza Al-Mustapha, has appealed to the General Overseer of the Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Movement, Pastor Lazarus Muoka, to come to the North to rescue the 19 northern states from incessant crises in the area. January 11, 2018 In "News" THE Former Chief Security Officer, CSO, to late military Head of State, General Sani Abacha, Major Hamza Al-Mustapha (retd) yesterday said he was not the killer of late Kudirat Abiola. November 10, 2016 In "News" PRESIDENT of Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Pastor Ayodele Oritsejafor, has said that his problem with most Northern political and religious leaders was that they were not doing enough to dissuade Boko Haram terrorists from the spate of unprovoked attacks on Christians and the country in general. February 24, 2014 In "News"