President Muhammadu Buhari says his administration will give more attention to improving personnel and infrastructure of universities to produce quality graduates for the economic transformation of the country. Buhari stated this on the 24th Convocation Ceremony of the University of Abuja in Gwagwalada on Saturday. Represented by the Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission (NUC) Prof. Rasheed Abubakar, Buhari said no nation could achieve meaningful development without education. “In view of this national perception, education will continue to be a high priority item in my government’s drive to transform the economy. “The task of overcoming the problems of the education sector is not a function and responsibility of government alone. “I believe that advancement in education at all levels will guarantee our collective drive to grow the economy for the betterment of all Nigerians. “Government will continue to provide Nigerians equal and massive access to education at all levels such that they can fulfil their dreams,” he said. He tasked universities to maintain a certain level of stability, with uninterrupted academic activities, to attain national development of the country. In his address, the Vice-Chancellor (VC) of the University, Prof. Abdul-Rasheed Na’allah congratulated the graduating students and assured it would host the graduation ceremony promptly. According to him, the institution graduated  10,331,  26 with First  Class, 866 graduated with Second Class Upper while 2,317 with Second Class lower and 339 with Third Class respectively. “Today, the University of Abuja is formally graduating a total of 10,338 students who have met the prescribed requirement of being worthy to be awarded various degrees by the institution,” he said. The vice-chancellor urged the graduating students to rise to the challenge of unemployment in the country by being creative so as to be self-reliant. The VC also disclosed that the university had established academic centres and units including, Research Council, Center For Undergraduate Research, Center For Sponsored Projects, and Abuja International Center for Internship. However, the university also conferred honorary doctorate degrees on distinguished individuals including Maj.-Gen. Alwali Kazir, former Chief of Army Staff. Vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari said on Thursday his administration would give more attention to improving personnel and infrastructure of universities to produce quality graduates. He assured that education would, henceforth, be a top priority in the developmental goals of the country. President Buhari stated this when he received the leadership… January 9, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has insisted that every Nigerian graduate must have a credible school certificate. January 10, 2020 In "Education" President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday warned that any university management involved in unethical practices would face the full wrath of the law. January 21, 2017 In "News"