Prof. Akin Abayomi, Lagos State Commissioner for Health has the state has put out a report confirming  63 persons under surveillance following the discovery of the case of Lassa fever in Lagos State. case being isolated at Abayomi made this disclosure at a press briefing on Wednesday, calling on members of the public not to panic as proper provision is being made for isolation in the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba. “We have identified 63 of the persons he may have been in contact with since his arrival from Ebonyi State into Lagos Law School, the Nigeria Air force clinic, Onikan and LUTH. “They are been monitored; If they develop any symptom of Lassa fever, we will pick them up early and isolate them so that we can break the circle of transmission,” he said. The Commissioner added that the index case was identified, Abayomi said, who came into Lagos from Ebonyi State. He said, “His destination was the Lagos Law School where he was quickly attended to at the clinic but was not getting well after being treated for malaria. “He was then referred to the Nigeria Air Force clinic, Onikan where he was managed further and was referred to LUTH when there was no improvement.” “The test was confirmed as positive on February 17, 2020, and was immediately transferred to the isolation containment facility in LUTH.” According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Lassa fever has spread to 26 states, with 472 cases and 72 deaths since the outbreak in January. vanguard The Lagos State Government on Wednesday confirmed a case of Lassa fever outbreak in the state, saying the patient has been isolated. Prof. Akin Abayomi, the State Commissioner for Health, who made this known in a statement, said that the patient was currently in isolation ward at the Lagos University… February 19, 2020 In "News" Case isolated at LUTH LASG calls for calm, advises public on safety precautions By Sola Ogundipe Lagos has recorded a case of Lassa fever currently raging in 19 other states in the country. Announcing the development on Wednesday morning, the State Commissioner for Health Prof, Akin Abayomi confirmed that the… February 19, 2020 In "Health" Kwara State government has said that Lassa fever has claimed the life of one person in the state. August 19, 2017 In "News"