The Lagos State Government says the compliance level on the ban of commercial motorcycle (Okada) and tricycle (Keke) is over 90 per cent. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, in a statement on Sunday, hailed the operators for complying with the restriction in six local government areas, major highways and bridges. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the enforcement of the State Security Council’s order began on Saturday, Feb. 1, 2020. ”The level of compliance was over 90 per cent. In fact, some of the ride hailing companies directed their riders to obey the directive. This is commendable. ”The high level of compliance has shown that Lagosians agree with the government on the need to stop the danger that commercial motorcycles and tricycles have become – a big threat to safety of lives and security of our people. They should stand firm in supporting the government. ”The little discomfort experienced by commuters on some routes due to the absence of motorcycles and tricycles is noted. This will not last, as alternatives are being rolled out. ”A fleet of 65 buses will join the others on some major routes as from Monday, Feb. 3, 2020,” Omotoso said. He said that no less than 550 more buses were being expected and 14 ferries would be commissioned on Tuesday, Feb. 4, 2020. According to him, this will further open up the waterways, reduce travel time on various routes and provide safe, dependable and comfortable alternatives for commuters. The commissioner said that the government was not unaware that enforcing this directive might lead to some job losses. He said that the Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, planned to announce some measures to tackle the likely effects of the order. Omotoso said that this was besides the programmes of various agencies, such as the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Office of Civic Engagement, Lagos State Parks and Gardens (LASPARK), among others. ”The government hereby warns all those who are planning to unleash violence on the state because of the ongoing enforcement to have a change of heart. ”Lagosians are peace-loving and law abiding people, who will not embrace any disruption of their legal activities by failed politicians hiding under the evil of unwholesome activism. ”The law enforcement agents have been directed to ensure that nobody takes the law into his hands. ”The government places a very high premium on law and order in the interest of all Lagosians. It will not fail to act when peace is threatened,” he said. NAN Vanguard Nigeria News The Lagos State Government on Monday announced plans to commence total enforcement of the 2012 state Traffic Law on activities of motorcyclists, popularly called Okada and tricycles, called "Keke Marwa" on restricted routes and bridges. The restriction and enforcement also affect the newly introduced "Opay ride, Gokada ride" and other… February 1, 2020 In "News" ...Oregun records partial compliance By Bose Adelaja As the much-awaited enforcement of Lagos State Traffic Rule kicked off Saturday, total compliance was noticed in Ikorodu especially at Ikorodu Roundabout, Benson Bus-stop and Sagamu Road as commercial motorcycles popularly called 'Okada Rider' and tricycles popularly called 'Keke NAPEP' or 'Keke Marwa'… February 1, 2020 In "News" Time was 6pm at the traffic-busy, indeed chaotic, Mile 2 area of Lagos. A mammoth horde of fuel tankers and other articulated trucks has as usual taken over every inch of driving space, thus impeding the flow of traffic along the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway from the Second Rainbow Bus-stop all the… April 27, 2016 In "Metro"