The Force Commander Multinational Joint Task Force, Major General Ibrahim Manu Yusuf has visited amphibious units of the Task Force in Mahada and Blangoua on the shore of Lake Chad. Addressing troops of Subsector 4 of Sector 1, the Force Commander commended their level of discipline and emphasized the need for synergy between Chadian and Cameroonian forces deployed in the locality. Speaking further, Major General Yusuf advised troops to operate seamlessly across national boundaries in line with the spirit of the MNJTF. “The international border separating you are colonial relics that should not prevent you from sharing information and undertaking joint operations to flush out Boko Haram Terrorists lurking in your localities”, the Force Commander added. Major General Yusuf urged commanders to engage with their host communities and ensure that their protection is of utmost importance, noting that such engagements will build the much needed mutual confidence and cohesion needed to defeat Boko Haram terrorism and Insurgency. The Force Commander also inspected equipment and the state of readiness of troops, assuring that urgent steps would be taken to address lapses observed. In the spirit of civil-military relations, the Force Commander and the host Sector Commander, Brigadier General Dobekreo Bouba and other members of the entourage also interacted with the Mayor of Blangoua and other dignitaries in Blangoua town hall before returning to N’Djamena. Vanguard Nigeria News Maj-Gen. Ibrahim Yusuf has taken over as the 6th Force Commander of the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) in N’Djamena, Chad. The Chief of Military Public Information, MNJTF, Col. Timothy Antigha, disclosed this in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Tuesday in Abuja. During… November 19, 2019 In "News" The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has approved the promotion of Private Illyasu Bala to the rank of Lance Corporal for exceptional courage and gallantry in the war against Boko Haram in the Lake Chad Area. The Chief of Military Public Information for Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF),… November 21, 2019 In "News" Maj.-Gen. Lucky Irabor, the Force Commander (FC) Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF), has commended troops of sector 1 Task Force in Camero September 11, 2017 In "News"