The Oye Local Government Council of Ekiti on Tuesday assured youths that sports development programmes would be introduced to discover talented sportsmen and women. The Chairman of the council, Mr Foluso Ojo, gave the assurance in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Oye-Ekiti. Oil marketers to partner banks on products finance https://t.co/7RLyAd3AZA #vanguardnews pic.twitter.com/Gfwzr2r2rx — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) February 25, 2020  He said that his administration was determined to engage the youths in productive activities and programmes where their talents would be properly utilised. READ ALSO: NSCDC cries out over cost of keeping 43 cows it seized in Ekiti Ojo explained that aside from sports development for the youths, his administration was planning to organise essay writing and spelling competition for students in both primary and secondary schools. The chairman said that he was determined to improve the standard of learning of the students while promoting sports development in the council area. He urged the youths to shun social vices and be hardworking in all their endeavours, adding that the council would continually empower them to become employers of labour. (NAN)   Deontay Wilder is a warrior, he will be back – Tyson Fury A post shared by  Vanguard News (@vanguardnews) on Feb 22, 2020 at 10:09pm PST VANGUARD Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State on Tuesday unveiled the rebranded state-owned Ekiti United Football Club with a charge to the people of the state to support the team to greatness. March 5, 2019 In "News" Governor Ayo Fayose of Ekiti has inaugurated the reconstituted Council of Traditional Ruler with Oloye of Oye-Ekiti, Oba Michael Ademolaju, as the new Chairman. August 30, 2017 In "News" The arena of the maiden convocation ceremony of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, on Saturday, April 29, practically stood still and in awe of a former teacher, who, after almost half a century of leaving the classroom, a grateful and appreciative generation bestowed on him an honour. May 7, 2017 In "Politics"