United States President, Donald Trump said that he will issue a formal statement on Thursday after his acquittal on two impeachment charges. “I will be making a public statement tomorrow at 12:00 pm from the @WhiteHouse to discuss our Country’s VICTORY on the Impeachment Hoax!” he tweeted. Shortly before, he tweeted a montage depicting a fake cover of Time magazine declaring him president for all eternity. Trump was acquitted in two Senate votes, based entirely on his Republican party support, of abusing his office and obstructing Congress. Trump’s defenders were not seen as having undermined the facts compiled by Schiff’s probe, and several Republican senators acknowledged he did wrong. But his lawyers and Senate defenders argued, essentially, that Trump’s behaviour was not egregious enough for impeachment and removal. And, pointing to the December House impeachment vote, starkly along party lines, they painted it as a political effort to “destroy the president” in an election year — arguing that voters should be allowed to decide Trump’s fate. “Your hatred of Donald has blinded you to the obvious. This is not about protecting the country, this is about destroying the president,” Republican Senator Lindsey Graham said before the vote. “The only way for this to end permanently is for the president to get reelected.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. President Donald Trump turned to some legal heavyweights to help defend him in his Senate impeachment trial with the addition on Friday of former independent counsel Ken Starr, who paved the way for former President Bill Clinton’s 1998 impeachment, and prominent lawyer Alan Dershowitz. The team defending the Republican president… January 18, 2020 In "Foreign" Donald Trump's lawyers prepared to deliver his first full-throated defence Saturday in the Senate's historic impeachment trial after Democratic prosecutors spent three days making their case for the United States president's removal from office. Capping 24 total hours of arguments, Democrats told the 100 senators that Trump abused the power… January 25, 2020 In "Foreign" United States President, Donald Trump drew on staunch Republican support Wednesday to defeat the gravest threat yet to his three-year-old presidency, winning acquittal in the Senate on impeachment charges of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. Only the third US leader ever placed on trial, Trump readily defeated the… February 5, 2020 In "Foreign"