Family of the Leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu, has commended the Abia State Police Command and journalists for their contributions towards the peaceful burial of their parents. Briefing newsmen at their country home at Isiama Afaraukwu, spokesman of the family, Kanunta Kanu, said their parents were embodiment of peace while they lived. He explained that this accounted for why his father, as the traditional ruler of Afaraukwu, was given the title of Omeudo, stressing that he lived with that peaceful virtue till death. Kanu said the family was grateful to journalists within and outside Abia for bringing what transpired at the burial to the entire world. ALSO READ: Soldiers/IPOB tension in Abia: Leave Biafra agitation out of our monarch’s burial, Nnamdi Kanu’s kinsmen cry In his words: ”I want to tell you, journalists, that our family members are happy with you, with what you did during the burial and we say a big thank you.” He said the family was also thanking Abia State Police Command for the manner they conducted themselves, which contributed to the peace that reigned during the burial. The family said it was also glad that despite the altercation between the police and IPOB before the burial, the Commissioner of Police,Mr. Ene Okon, exhibited true sense of professionalism in the way he maintained security in the state on the day of the burial. Kanu further expressed gratitude to the IPOB members for standing firm behind the family before, during and after the burial. Despite the death of their parents, the family would strive to remain united and resolute in the fight for the actualization of Biafra. Vanguard The family of the Leader of the proscribed Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, IPOB,  Nnamdi Kanu, has accused the Commissioner of Police, Abia State, Mr. Ene Okon, of being 'the major security threat" to the burial ceremony of their late parents, Eze Israel Kanu, and Ugoeze Sally Kanu ,slated for Friday,… February 10, 2020 In "News" *SAYS ARMY STILL PATROLLING COMMUNITY By Ugochukwu Alaribe UMUAHIA - The family of the Leader of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu, has accused the Commissioner of Police, Abia State, Mr. Ene Okon, of being 'the major security threat" to the burial ceremony of their late parents, Eze… February 10, 2020 In "News" As Afaraukwu kinsmen of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, prepare for the burial of their traditional ruler, Eze Okwu Kanu, and his wife, Ugoeze Sally Kanu, there are speculations on whether Kanu will return home from the United Kingdom (UK) to pay his… January 26, 2020 In "News"