The United Nation Refugee Agency, UNHCR has named award-winning actress cum filmmaker, Judith Audu-Foght as a high profile supporter for its ‘Telling the Real Story’,TRS, project. Making the announcement on Thursday, the body noted that as a Nollywood producer, Judith Audu leverages her platform to shed a light on issues relating to sexual and gender-based violence. “This was the motivation behind the creation of her short film-‘Not Right’. The film raises awareness on the issue of domestic violence in Nigerian society and encourages women to speak up. “Judith started supporting ‘Telling the Real Story’ (TRS) project in 2019. She participated in various field activities in Benin City, the capital of Edo State in Nigeria. She has participated in radio talk shows, run in collaboration with TRS, aimed at raising awareness on the dangers of irregular movement. She additionally, participated in the 2019 World Day Against Human Trafficking that involved debate events in Secondary schools, and culminated in a 5 km ‘walk’ against human trafficking,” the statement reads. Reacting to the appointment, Judith Audu stated that it has always been her desire to contribute to the growth of her immediate society, the country and humanity. “A lot of this reflects in the work I do. That is why I have always used my movies to tackle social causes and advocacy on sundry issues. I believe that as humans, we should never cease to make an impact in the lives of others wherever we find ourselves or whatever we are doing. This appointment restates the fact that there is still a lot of ground to be covered,” she said. With her appointment, Judith Audu joins UNCHR prominent supporters like Angelina Jolie, Alex Song, 2baba and a host of others using their influence, dedication and hard work to raise funds, awareness and advocate for refugees. ‘Telling the Real Story’ (TRS) by UNHCR is a platform that allows Eritreans, Nigerians and Somalis who have made the journey to Europe to share their stories about the journey and the situation in destination countries. They share their stories in their mother tongues (Tigrinya, Somali, Nigerian Pidgin). Vanguard Just back from the shooting of her movie, ‘The Family’, Nollywood actress and producer, Judith Audu, has teamed up with two of her industry colleagues, Omowumi Dada, and Uyoyou Adia for another feature film titled ‘The Sessions’. August 30, 2019 In "Entertainment" Judith Audu Production, headed by Nollywood actress, Judith Audu-Foght, in partnership with Iroko Partners Ltd, is set to release another feature film titled ' Obsession. This is coming on the heels of their initial partnership, Stormy Hearts. September 9, 2017 In "Entertainment" Fast rising actress, Judith Audu, is currently in a happy mood. Her movie,Not Right, was one of the films nominated in the Best Short Film category for the Africa Magic Viewers' Choice Awards (AMVCA) 2015. December 20, 2014 In "Home Video People"