On another exciting episode of MTV Base Behind The Story, Zanku King, Zlatan, opens up on several controversial topics about him as he sits with the host, Sammy Walsh. The rapper takes fans down memory lane, discussing issues around how his career started, how stardom has changed his life, and where he sees himself in the future. The Ikorodu-bred rapper spoke about his childhood dreams, fears, and how music changed his path. He opened up on his past struggles and how he has been heavily scrutinized and criticized by the public. Zlatan, born Omoniyi Temidayo Raphael, also shared details of his time in church as a chorister and how he thought he was going to be a football star.  On this sizzling episode, Zlatan spoke his truth and cleared the air on all controversies from his rumoured girlfriend Seyi Awonuga to Vico, his relationship with Naira Marley and his infamous diss song on ex BBNaija housemate, Tacha as well as his arrest by the EFCC. Fans will get to hear some exclusive stories about the rapper as Sammy Walsh probes into his personal life and his circle of friends. Vanguard MTV Base ‘Behind The Story’ is making a return with some of Nigeria’s biggest music stars set to feature in the second season.   The show, which is hosted by MTV Base VJ, Sammy Walsh, will see leading talents in the entertainment industry take fans down memory lane, discussing topics around… January 19, 2020 In "Entertainment" Zlatan is set to headline his first concert in Lagos themed Zlatan Live at the Balmoral Convention Centre, Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island Lagos on the 18th of December 2019 and ticket is already on sale on Nairabox. This is going to be Zlatan’s first official concert as a headliner… October 19, 2019 In "Entertainment" By Ayo Onikoyi At the penultimate episode of MTV Base ‘Behind The Story’, which was the second episode, rapper, Sinzu, former known as Sauce Kid opened to the show host, Sammy Walsh on many issues that have defined his life. I sang and prophesied about the nonsense that is making… February 8, 2020 In "Entertainment"