Executive Director of Nigerian-American Council (NAC), and Former Presidential Aspirant in 2019 election Dr. Okey Samuel Mbonu, yesterday met with the new US Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Beth Leonard, in Washington DC, to discuss matters concerning Nigeria’s security challenges. Mbonu in a statement at the Washington DC think-tank, Center for Security and International Studies (CSIS)”, event said, “the current government in Nigeria may have abdicated its duty to protect its citizens, especially Nigerian Christians, of which images of horrific murders, by Nigerian terrorists, are now at the center of the world attention”. “where the government fails to live up to its primary responsibility, of ensuring the safety and security of citizens, they may leave citizens with no option but to revert to the basic human doctrine of self-defense”. Speaking on the direction of Nigeria’s political future, Mbonu said, “equity and convention dictate the next President of Nigeria in 2023 would be from the Southeast region of Nigeria”. The NAC Director explained why political leaders in Nigeria did not speak out on the murder of the Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Adamawa State noting that “many of the Southern and Northern leaders, including Christian political leaders, are enmeshed in massive corruption, which makes them afraid to speak-out because they fear a dusting up of their corruption files”. “2023 will usher-in completely new leadership in Nigeria, it will be an opportunity for new-generation leaders with zero corruption baggage, and 21st Century credentials to emerge on the political stage” he added. A Presidential aspirant in the 2019 general election, Dr. Okey Samuel Mbonu, has called for total rebranding of Nigeria towards building a strong, progressive, and united country. He advocated for the immediate change of the name Nigeria to ‘Republic of West Africa’ among other reforms. December 23, 2019 In "News" An array of potential presidential aspirants stormed the United States to lobby support for election of a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction in 2023, a move similar to the global campaign undertaken by members of All Progressives Congress, APC, prior to 2015 presidential election. January 13, 2020 In "News" THE ceaseless spate of killings by herdsmen across the country which the government has been battling to arrest could be easily be addressed through adoption of ranching and state police, a presidential hopeful, Samuel Mbonu, has said. May 13, 2018 In "News"