The protesters, who were led by a 95-year-old man, Chief Anthony Maduafor said they were taken aback when information filtered into the community that the governor was planning to issue a certificate of recognition to someone who was not the choice of the people of  Isulo. The nanogerian told reporters that he had to lead the protest because things were getting out of hand in his community as a result of the alleged governor’s move. He said: “I decided to come because we heard that Governor Obiano plans to issue staff of office to someone who is not from the right village for the throne. He is also not fit to hold any position in the community according to our constitution.” The protesters wielded placards some of which read,  ‘Chike Maduka is not our Igwe -elect’,  ‘this person cannot rule Isulo’ and ‘don’t issue any certificate of recognition to Maduka’, among others. Speaking on behalf of the community, Mr Innocent Ugbasoro, who is the chairman of Isulo Town Union lamented that despite a letter written to the state government opposing the move, Maduka was still being considered for the throne of the community.
He said: “We wrote to the commissioner for local government and chieftaincy matters over the plan to install Maduka as the traditional ruler of our community. “We are here to hear from the government officials if they are truly supporting someone who is our brother and who we know very well that he is not fit to take over as the monarch of Isulo.” Ugbasoro recalled that the community had earlier written the state government with documentary evidence of the person of Maduka, and also the constitution of the community which stipulates qualities for aspiring to become a traditional ruler in the area. An official of the state government, Mr Henry Nwasike, who addressed the protesters commended their peaceful protest and promised that their message would be forwarded to Governor Obiano. Vanguard  The tussle for the traditional stool of Oraukwu community has taken a turn for the worse as two monarchs have emerged in spite of issuance of Certificate of Recognition to one of the contestants, Dr. Emeka Onuorah by the Anambra State Governor, Chief Willie Obiano. August 3, 2016 In "News" There is confusion in Awka-Etiti, Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra state, over the emergence of two traditional rulers, Chuma Angus Ojukwu and Michael Chidozie Ezeudenna, who were laying claims to the throne of the community. November 18, 2016 In "News" ONITSHA - The protracted Igweship imbroglio which had hitherto disrupted peaceful co-existence in Nanka community in Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra state has at last been brought to an end with the issuance of a certificate of recognition and staff of office to the newly elected traditional ruler… April 26, 2017 In "News"