The Plateau State governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP in the 2019 elections, Senator Jeremiah Useni has tasked communities in the State to raise their level of alertness to pre-empt further attacks on the State. The Senator, who at the weekend led a team of Party stakeholders on a visit to the people of Kulben in Mangu and Kwatas in Bokkos local government areas of the State recently attacked by armed men to donate some relief materials and cash to the survivors; also urged them not to abandon their homes for “anyone.” READ ALSO: Rights group calls on FG to rebuild Bayelsa villages burnt by military A statement by his Media Consultant, Yiljap Abraham quoted Senator Useni saying, “We are very saddened by the loss of precious human lives. We are visiting to express our sympathy and to encourage those of you alive to be strong hearted. We must show greater wisdom in the way we live as communities. We need to remain alert at all times to thwart the efforts of attackers rather than waking up later to react only after the damage has been done. We know that vengeance belongs to God. Ours is to stay awake and watch while also praying.” The Saf Forof (Chief of Forof in Bokkos), Da Bulus Magaji, who responded through the Saf Tarangol, Da Monday Masok thanked Senator Useni for the visit stating, “We are very elated at your presence here with us. The attack shocked us because our people are peaceful, and there was no previous provocation whatsoever which might have led to the attack.” Ward Head of Kulben (in Mangu), Da Siman Mangdik, added their hearts were strengthened by Useni’s visit as “This is the first time we are witnessing such tragedy. And we want to say very strongly that our people and generations after them are determined to remain on this land and not abandon it for any reason.” A donation of 40 bags of rice and a sum of N400, 000 were made to both communities. Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP Governorship candidate  for Plateau State in the general election, Senator Jeremiah Useni has filed a petition at the Governorship election tribunal in Jos, asking the tribunal to declare Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC’s declaration of Governor Simon Lalong of the All Progressives Congress, APC, as… April 15, 2019 In "News" By Marie-Therese Nanlong, Jos Immediate past Senator representing Plateau North Senatorial zone, Senator Jonah Jang has expressed sadness over the tribunal judgment which dismissed the petition of the People's Democratic Party, PDP and its governorship candidate, Senator Jeremiah Useni and affirmed Governor Simon Lalong as the duly elected governor of… October 5, 2019 In "News" By Marie-Therese Nanlong The Governorship candidate of the People's Democratic Party in Plateau State, Senator Jeremiah Useni has again reiterated his willingness to offer quality leadership if elected Governor of the State in the March 2, 2019 election saying he is fit and capable to run the affairs of the… February 11, 2019 In "News"