Nigeria on Friday recorded its first case of Coronavirus after the outbreak of the disease in China. Nigeria’s first case of coronavirus,  a disease that had hit 19 European countries – Italy, Germany, France, Spain, SWITZERLAND, Britain Russia, Australia,  CROATIA, Greece, Finland, Sweden, BELGIUM, DENMARK, GEORGIA, NORTH MACEDONIA, NORWAY, and ROMANIA, was reported in Lagos, the country’s commercial nerve centre. A statement signed by the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, said an Italian citizen who works in Nigeria and returned from Milan to Lagos on February 25 was suspected to have contracted the disease. Ehanire said the Italian was confirmed positive for coronavirus by the Virology Laboratory of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), part of the Laboratory Network of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). He said the patient is clinically stable, with no serious symptoms, and is being managed at the Infectious Disease Hospital in Yaba, Lagos. The minister advised Nigerians to pay adequate attention to their hygiene and reeled out measures to prevent the contracting of the disease. The statement read: “The Federal Ministry of Health has confirmed a coronavirus disease (COVID-19) case in Lagos State, Nigeria. The case, which was confirmed on the 27th of February 2020, is the first case to be reported in Nigeria since the beginning of the outbreak in China in January 2020. “The case is an Italian citizen who works in Nigeria and returned from Milan, Italy to Lagos, Nigeria on the 25th of February 2020. He was confirmed by the Virology Laboratory of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, part of the Laboratory Network of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. The patient is clinically stable, with no serious symptoms, and is being managed at the Infectious Disease Hospital in Yaba, Lagos. “The Government of Nigeria, through the Federal Ministry of Health, has been strengthening measures to ensure an outbreak in Nigeria is controlled and contained quickly. The multi-sectoral Coronavirus Preparedness Group led by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has immediately activated its National Emergency Operations Centre and will work closely with Lagos State Health authorities to respond to this case and implement firm control measures. “I wish to assure all Nigerians that have we have been beefing up our preparedness capabilities since the first confirmation of cases in China, and we will use all the resources made available by the government to respond to this case. “We have already started working to identify all the contacts of the patient, since he entered Nigeria. Please be reminded that most people who become infected may experience only mild illness and recover easily, but it can be more severe in others, particularly the elderly and persons with other underlying chronic illnesses. All Nigerians should take care of their health and maintain hand and respiratory hygiene to protect themselves and others, including their own families, following the precautions below: “Citizens must not abuse social media and indulge in spreading misinformation that causes fear and panic. The Federal Ministry of Health, through Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, will continue to provide updates and will initiate all measures required to prevent the spread of an outbreak in Nigeria.” Vanguard LASG debunks rumour of suspected case in Alimosho LGA By Sola Ogundipe THE World Health Organisation, WHO has called for caution against the spread of panic over the coronavirus outbreak in China and other affected countries. The WHO, which is tackling misinformation over the coronavirus outbreak, had declared the outbreak… February 10, 2020 In "Features" The Minister of Health, Professor Osagie Ehanire, says Lagos State, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, is well prepared and ready to contain the novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infectious disease if eventually, it breaks out in Nigeria. Ehanire gave this assurance on Sunday, while briefing newsmen after inspecting facilities at the Emergency… February 9, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has assured Nigerians of its readiness to strengthening surveillance at five international airports in the country to prevent the spread of Coronavirus. The five international airports are in Enugu, Lagos, Rivers, Kano and the FCT. The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, who disclosed this at a… January 29, 2020 In "News"