Carlo Ancelotti’s Everton side jumped up to seventh in the Premier League on Saturday with a 3-1 victory over Crystal Palace. The Merseysiders found themselves in a relegation battle when the Italian took over at Goodison Park in late December, but their season has transformed and they now find themselves 12 points clear of the drop zone. Ancelotti is no stranger to a raised eyebrow, and the following stat may just make the former Napoli boss raise both: Per ​Opta,  only city rivals ​Liverpool (24) have won more Premier League points than ​Everton (17) since the Italian’s first game in charge back in December. A narrow 2-1 defeat at reigning champions Manchester City remains the Toffees’ only defeat while Ancelotti has been at the helm, and Saturday’s win over Roy Hodgson’s men saw them climb above Manchester United, Wolves and Arsenal in the table. Much was made of Everton’s decision to rebuff Barcelona’s £85m bid for ​Richarlison in January – a story which was shot down as bogus – but the Brazilian produced a stellar performance to help Ancelotti’s side grab all three points against Palace and prove they were right to not let their star man go. It remains to be seen whether Everton can maintain this rich vein of form and challenge for a European spot come the end of the season. The Toffees face a daunting run of fixtures over the coming month, with ​Manchester United, Liverpool and Leicester all visiting Goodison Park, while trips to Arsenal, Chelsea and Tottenham are also on the horizon. If Ancelotti can keep Everton in the top half of the table throughout those fixtures, the Toffees will be in with a real chance of securing European football for next season. Regardless of whether they finish in a Europa League place or not, Ancelotti has revitalized an Everton team that looked to be heading for relegation from the top flight of English football since 1951. Vanguard News Everton moved up to seventh and within five points of the Premier League top four as their resurgence under Carlo Ancelotti continued with a 3-1 win over Crystal Palace on Saturday. Bernard, Richarlison and Dominic Calvert-Lewin scored the goals for the Toffees, who have won five and drawn two of… February 8, 2020 In "Sports" Everton have turned to the vastly experienced Carlo Ancelotti as their new manager, with a brief to return the faded Premier League club to former glories. Ancelotti, 60, was sacked by Napoli last week but comes with a trophy-laden CV from spells at a clutch of Europe's top clubs, including… December 21, 2019 In "News" Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp admits he has some tough decisions to make ahead of Sunday's FA Cup meeting with Everton after the injury toll mounted for the Premier League leaders. Midfielder Naby Keita became the latest player to be added to the injured list, having sustained a groin problem before… January 3, 2020 In "News"