A conservative Catholic activist, who in 2019 stole statues from a church and dumped them in Rome’s Tiber River, on Tuesday defended his actions as a “nice” form of protesting. The four statues in question were wooden carvings representing the Incan goddess Pachamama (Mother Earth) and were displayed in a chapel in a church near the Vatican. They were placed there in October during a Vatican summit about the Amazon region. However, traditionalists viewed the statues as a pagan atrocity. According to Alexander Tschugguel, the Austrian activist who confessed to their theft, the statues were “a crime” against the first of the 10 Commandments, which states: “I am the Lord thy God, Thou shalt have no other gods before Me’’. However, the statues were later found and Pope Francis apologised for their theft. Tschugguel said he had a duty to fight against the crime and chose the nicest way of doing it. “I tried to do it in a very kind way, so I carried them with respect and threw them in the river with a kind of respect, even if it sounds strange to you now. “It is good for traditionalists like him to stand up and tells the pope, of course, in a good, nice and kind way to drop his “globalist” agenda,’’ he said. (dpa/NAN) Vanguard News Nigeria. Pope Francis has asked for forgiveness for the theft of indigenous statues from a church near the Vatican, and says they have been recovered, undamaged. ‘`As bishop of the diocese [of Rome], I ask forgiveness” for what happened, Francis has said during a session of the Vatican’s summit on… October 25, 2019 In "Foreign" In the last week of the year 2015, I woke up to read the story about the record breaking statue of 'Jesus' the Christ commissioned by one Obinna Onuoha at St. Aloysius Catholic Church in the village of Abajah in Imo state. January 3, 2016 In "News" Pope Francis on Wednesday told members of the Mafia in Italy, where many go to Church and worship openly, that they cannot call themselves Christians because they “carry death in their souls”. March 28, 2018 In "News"