CHAIRMAN, Reconciliation Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and Governor of Oyo State, Mr. Seyi Makind, yesterday, said with the move to reconcile aggrieved party members in Lagos State, the All Progressives Congress, APC, should be ready to evict the state.
Governor Makinde said this at a reconciliation parley with stakeholders of the party held the Lugard office of Chief Bode George in Lagos.
Also present at the meeting were former governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori; former Deputy governor of Lagos State, Senator Koforola Bucknor-Akerele; former Deputy National Chairman of the PDP, Chief Bode George, former Second Republic Transport Minister, Chief Ebenezer Babatope and others.
Addressing newsmen after a closed door meeting, Governor Makinde described the meeting as “mission accomplished.”
He said: “As you can see it was mission accomplished. My father (Bode George) and i were able to resolve some of the issues. You must be frontal on how issues are addressed but we have made some good progress.”
On why the PDP chairman in Lagos State, Mr. Deji Doherty, was absent at the meeting, Makinde said: “You see, you don’t jump the gun, it is one step at a time. We have come here to meet the stakeholders with my father and leader here to move the party forward. I can give you the assurance that the unity of the PDP in Lagos State is sacrosanct right now. We are also putting the APC on notice that they need to prepare for what is coming in Lagos.”
Also speaking, Chief Bode George expressed optimism that with the reconciliation process in too hear, the party in Lagos State will emerge united to win future elections.
He said: “We had a robust meeting and we have worked out a solution. We have all agreed.”
There will also be issues and the gift of the almighty is for you to be able to resolve whatever differences you have. The governor spoke brilliantly and proferred solution which will be accepted so that the stakeholders can work together.
I have experienced a lot of britbat, cacophony of voices and fighting ourselves.
We have a finality, nobody is born forever and there will be a day after.
“The stakeholders will be called, they will talk to the national leadership of the party and we will all move forward, no loser, no winner.
“The reconciliation will work, that is the beauty of politics. We don’t have emperors in our party but we have leaders and whatever is suggested here will be accepted.” By Dapo Akinrefon CHAIRMAN, Reconciliation Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and Governor of Oyo State, Mr. Seyi Makinde, Thursday, said with the move to reconcile aggrieved party members in Lagos State, the All Progressives Congress, APC, should be ready to evict the state. Governor Makinde said this at… February 27, 2020 In "Politics" FORMER Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Bode George has boasted that the PDP would win the presidential election in 2019 if he is given the mandate to lead the party. October 7, 2017 In "News" FORMER Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Bode George has expressed his readiness to deliver the presidential seat in 2019 if given the mandate to lead the PDP. October 6, 2017 In "News"