The Syrian government on Wednesday described Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan as “disconnected from reality” after he threatened to attack regime forces “everywhere” in Syria. “The head of the Turkish regime comes with empty… statements only issued by a person disconnected from reality,” state news agency SANA quoted a source at the foreign ministry as saying. The comments “only reveal ignorance in threatening to hit Syrian army troops,” the source said. Russia-backed regime forces have since December upped their bombardment of the last major opposition bastion of Idlib in northwest Syria, where Ankara backs rebels. Tensions between the two sides have soared since regime shelling on Monday last week killed eight Turkish soldiers, prompting a deadly response by the Turkish army. Earlier on Wednesday, Erdogan threatened to strike Syrian regime forces “everywhere” if his soldiers were harmed. “I hereby declare that we will strike regime forces everywhere from now on regardless of the Sochi deal if any tiny bit of harm is dealt to our soldiers at observation posts or elsewhere,” Erdogan told a meeting of his ruling party in parliament. The assault on jihadist-run Idlib comes despite Ankara and Moscow striking a deal in the Russian town of Sochi in 2018 intended to avert an onslaught on the bastion of three million people. Ankara said on Monday this week that five more of its troops were killed. A regime helicopter was downed near a Turkish checkpoint in northwest Syria the following day. Ankara reported it but did not say who was behind the downing, which pro-government Syrian newspaper Al-Watan said killed three air crew. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Turkey will strike Syrian regime forces "everywhere" if its soldiers come under renewed attack, Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan warned Wednesday and accused Damascus ally Russia of committing "massacres" in Idlib. "I hereby declare that we will strike regime forces everywhere from now on regardless of the Sochi deal if… February 12, 2020 In "Foreign" Damascus and its ally Moscow furiously condemned an American air strike on a Syrian airbase Friday that marked the first direct US assault on President Bashar al-Assad's government. April 7, 2017 In "News" Syrian President Bashar al Assad on Tuesday denounced Turkey’s leader as a thief for attacking the northeast of his country and reiterated a pledge to retake all areas lost to Damascus in years of civil war, state media reported. Assad made the remarks as he made a rare visit to… October 23, 2019 In "Foreign"