Gambian ex-autocrat Yahya Jammeh’s palatial country residence, where he allegedly administered a self-invented AIDS cure, has been partially “gutted by bushfire,” the West African state’s army said Thursday. Located in Jammeh’s home village of Kanilai in western Gambia, his sprawling former private residence was engulfed by a wildfire on Wednesday, according to army spokesman Lamin Sanyang. Jammeh — whose regime has been accused of murder, torture and rape — fled The Gambia in January 2017 after losing a presidential election to relative newcomer Adama Barrow. Some of the abuses are believed to have occurred in Kanilai. Three men who disappeared after plotting a coup in 2014 were exhumed in the village in 2017, for example. AIDS patients have also alleged that Jammeh detained them in the compound in order to force them to undergo a herbal treatment of his own design. Sanyang said the wildfire started on Tuesday in the neighbouring village of Alla Kunda, where villagers unsuccessfully tried to extinguish the blaze, before spreading to Kanilai the following day. “The house where the former president used to conduct his treatment programme was gutted by bushfire,” Sanyang said, referring to Jammeh’s alleged AIDS cure. A “mini stadium” in the complex also burned down, he said, adding that no one was hurt in the incident. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. THE Gambia’s new President, Mr. Adama Barrow has said that the country’s veteran leader, Mr. Yahaya Jammeh has finally agreed to cede power and leave the country. Writing on Twitter on Friday, Barrow said: ‘’ I would like to inform you that Yahya Jammeh has agreed to step down. He… January 21, 2017 In "News" Some Gambians have taken to the twitter to express their joy over the response from West African bloc and the world in ensuring true democracy reigns in The Gambia. Most of them have specifically thanked Nigeria's President, Muhammadu Buhari and the ECOWAS in general for being their "guardians." January 20, 2017 In "News" Gambian President Yahya Jammeh, who finally left his country Saturday after threats of possible military intervention to force him to step down, seized power and clung to office for 22 years with a blend of severity, mysticism and iron-clad self-belief. January 22, 2017 In "News"