The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State on Saturday cancelled the chairmanship primary elections conducted in Ese-Odo Local government area of the state. The State Chairman, Ade Adetimehin, who addressed a news conference, described the primaries as null and void, saying that the local government chairman did not have the right to conduct chairmanship primaries. He said that the right to conduct the primaries was solely in the purview of the state officials, and not the local government chairman. The conference was attended by the State Vice-chairman of APC, the State Secretary, Woman Leader, member House of Assembly representing Ese-Odo LGA, the Deputy Chief of Staff, all the Ese-Odo chairmanship contestants and key stakeholders from the local government. Adetimehin said that the decision on the chairmanship of Ese-Odo would be taken on Monday, Feb. 10, at the State Executive Committee meeting of the party at the secretariat. News Agency of Nigeria recalled that primary elections was conducted in Igbekebo on Feb. 6, which produced the current Caretaker Chairman in Ese-Odo, Ojo Omolewa, as the party Flagbearer. Omolewa had polled 199 votes to defeat Messiah Allen with seven votes, Omolere Ojigi and Richard Omosehin who had 5 votes each. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Hon. Ojo Omolewa, Caretaker Committee Chairman of Ese-Odo Local Government council of Ondo State, has emerged the flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the coming local government elections in the state. The election, held at Igbekebo town hall in the council headquarters on Friday, had Omolewa polling… February 7, 2020 In "Politics" Dayo Johnson - Akure Anxiety has gripped the 101 local government chairmanship aspirants jostling for the 18 council seats on the platform of the ruling the All Progressive Congress, APC, in Ondo State. Reason: they don't know whether or not they have been cleared to contest as the screening committee… January 31, 2020 In "Politics" THE Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday picked their deputy governorship candidates ahead of the November 26 election. October 13, 2016 In "Politics"