U.S. President Donald Trump has fired two key witnesses in the impeachment investigation against him, as he started an apparent campaign of retaliation just two days after he was acquitted by the Senate. Trump fired Gordon Sondland, the U.S. ambassador to the European Union, just hours after dismissing Ukraine expert Alexander Vindman, a decorated Army lieutenant colonel, according to statements released by Sondland and Vindman’s lawyer. “The most powerful man in the world – buoyed by the silent, the pliable, and the complicit – has decided to exact revenge,” Vindman’s attorney David Pressman said in a statement, adding his client was “escorted” from the White House. It was an astonishing move by Trump to clear his administration of people who have testified in the impeachment probe, which investigated Trump’s attempt to pressure Ukraine to pursue investigations that could help his 2020 re-election bid. Sondland – a political appointee who donated 1 million dollars to the Trump’s presidential campaign – testified publicly that he believed there was a quid pro quo in Trump’s demand that Kiev pursue investigations. “I was advised today that the president intends to recall me effective immediately as United States Ambassador to the European Union,” Sondland said in a statement, reported by multiple U.S. media outlets. “Our work here has been the highlight of my career,” he added. Ukraine expert Vindman – who worked on National Security Council – was one of a number of Trump administration officials that listened in on a July 25 call where Trump asked Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelensky to do a “favour” and investigate his political rival. “It was inappropriate, it was improper for the president to demand an investigation into a political opponent, especially a foreign power,” Vindman said during his testimony. Earlier on Friday Trump – who was acquitted this week on all impeachment charges – indicated that Vindman would be removed. “You think I’m supposed to be happy with him? I’m not,” Trump said. According to multiple U.S. media reports, Vindman will be reassigned to a position in the Defense Department. Trump was impeached in December in the House of Representatives. He was charged with abusing his office to pressure Ukraine into announcing an investigation of his political rival ahead of elections this year, leveraging military aid to lean on Kiev, and then obstructing the investigation by Congress. The Republican-controlled Senate acquitted him earlier this week in a vote that was largely along party lines. “As usual, the White House runs away from the truth. Lt. Col. Vindman lived up to his oath to protect and defend our Constitution. “This action is not a sign of strength,” Chuck Schumer, the leader of the Democrats in the Senate said on Friday. (dpa/NAN) Vanguard Nigeria News Two top national security aides who listened to President Donald Trump’s call with Ukraine are preparing to testify in the impeachment hearings, launching a week of back-to-back sessions as Americans hear from those closest to the White House. Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman, an Army officer at the National Security Council,… November 19, 2019 In "Foreign" U.S. President Donald Trump says he does not know Gordon Sondland, the U.S. Ambassador to the EU at the centre of the impeachment inquiry, well. November 20, 2019 In "News" President Donald Trump’s administration on Tuesday blocked the U.S. ambassador to the European Union from giving testimony in the House of Representatives’ impeachment investigation of the Republican president. Gordon Sondland, a Trump donor who started his diplomatic job in July, was due to meet behind closed doors with staff of… October 8, 2019 In "Foreign"