Donald Trump has claimed former First Lady Michelle Obama loved disgraced film producer Harvey Weinstein. The President of the United States hit out over Mrs Obama’s friendship with rapist mogul at a press conference in India Tuesday, saying: ‘I was never a fan of Harvey… ‘He was a person I never liked. I don’t know too much about the case…(I’m in) meetings every minute of the day. I was just not a fan of his. I knew him a little bit, not very well. ‘The people that liked him were the Democrats. Michelle Obama, Hillary Clinton loved him.’ A 2013 video that recently resurfaced showed Mrs Obama praising Weinstein as a ‘wonderful human being’ at a White House function. She added that he was ‘a good friend and just a powerhouse.’ Responding to a question from a MailOnline reporter, Trump called on the Democrats to give back donations made to them by Weinstein. Trump added: ‘He said he was going to work hard to defeat me in the election – how did that go?’ The president added that Weinstein’s conviction sent ‘a very strong message’ to other powerful sex abusers. Weinstein was convicted of third-degree rape and first-degree sexual act at Manhattan Criminal Court on Monday. The Miramax founder, who was once one of the most powerful men in Hollywood, was rushed to hospital immediately after the verdict suffering suspected high blood pressure. Many of his old Hollywood pals claim to have been oblivious to Weinstein’s abusive behavior, despite others saying his exploitation and abuse were an open secret in movie circles. He is set to be sent to New York’s notorious Riker’s Island prison ahead of his sentencing, which could see him jailed for up to 25 years. Metro Uk Vanguard Nigeria News Just when the dust is beginning to settle over sexual harassment allegations against Hollywood veteran actor, Bill Cosby, who over fifty women accused of sexual assault, another Hollywood big boss, Harvey Weinstein is on the spot for the same crime. October 15, 2017 In "Entertainment" Georgina Chapman, the wife of film producer Harvey Weinstein is quitting their union following allegations of sexual harassment against him from a string of actresses. October 11, 2017 In "News" Allegations against Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein, have taken a dangerous dimension, and this time around, an actress Annabella Sciorra, claims she was violently raped. October 28, 2017 In "News"