PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has extended his good wishes to President Xi Jinping and citizens of the People’s Republic of China during this trying time. President Buhari in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Sunday said that China’s efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus have been exemplary, as well as the country’s collaboration with international agencies and other countries on the matter. President Buhari noted that “China has been exceptionally supportive of Nigeria and Africa, and even more so in recent years; therefore, it is important to let China know that Nigeria and her citizens are also standing by them during this outbreak. With all the efforts being put in, we know that it is only a matter of time before this nightmare passes.” READ ALSO: Coronavirus: FG will not stop Nigerians from travelling to China – Mohammed He thanked” Nigerians for their hospitality towards the Chinese nationals in our midst, and for not letting the coronavirus outbreak create any disturbance or disrupt the peaceful coexistence between us and them.” President Buhari also prayed that God will comfort the Chinese and others who have already lost family members and loved ones to the disease. Vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated President Xi Jinping of the People’s Republic of China, on the 69th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic. September 29, 2018 In "News" The Consul General of the Peoples’ Republic of China in Lagos, Mr. Chu Maoming, Wednesday assured that the government of China has adequate measures to containing the deadly Coronavirus that has hit the city of Wuham and spread to other parts of the world, saying that the government of Xi… January 29, 2020 In "News" …Signs $340.74m ICT loan deal By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA—PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has appealed to Chinese government to facilitate the speedy completion of  Mambilla power  project in Taraba State. Buhari made the appeal, yesterday, in Beijing, China, while signing the bilateral agreement between himself and President Xi Jinping on the sideline… September 6, 2018 In "News"