A computer and robotic education student of University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Kingsley Ogbu has developed an application, Social Varsities app which he says helps his fellow students cope with campus life. The app which he developed in collaboration with his friend Bright Eloke is an all-purpose platform which gives Nigerian students opportunity to socialise while having access to other services that ease campus life. With the app, students can find hostels around their various campuses, read relevant news about their school, faculties or departments as well as shop and sell personal items.The app also help them make friends and connect with school mates from and outside the school environment. However, Social Varsities App is not limited to students alone. Business owners, landlords, real estate agents, parents/guardians, school administrators and the general public can still make use of the app for different purposes. Business owners can post their products or services on the app and make more sales; Landlords and house agents can post vacant rooms, flats, shops on the app and get tenants quickly; School administrators can post relevant news targeted at students on Social Varsities, while parents can also find accommodation for their wards from the comfort of their home using the app. According to Ogbu, “accommodation is one of the major problems undergraduates face immediately after being admitted into the institutions. Accommodation has made a lot of students fall prey to fraud and swindlers who deceive and made away with their money. Social Varsities helps solve this problem for Nigerian students especially freshers who are the major targets of these fraudsters. “Besides that, the App brings together all aspects of campus life for a student, making life easier,” he added. He said the App was designed to be user-friendly, fast and secure, as users can create an account in less than a minute and start enjoying the numerous services available. The app is available on Google Play Store or through the website https://www.socialvarsities.com VANGUARD Experts say it takes about $10,000 to build an app. Little wonder many schools across the country don’t bother. But with the activities that come with running a school and the many stakeholders involved, it only makes sense that schools have access to an app that brings all these elements… December 21, 2016 In "News" FEMI Olanrewaju is an early adopter. He was one of the first Nigerians to buy a mobile phone when the revolution in the telecoms sector began in 2001. Olanrewaju was not a tech addict. Rather, he was one who always sought products and services that would make his life easier… February 27, 2015 In "GlamTeK" The duo of Osine Ikhianosime and Anesi Ikhianosime have rekindled hope in the future of nigeria as they entered their names in the catalogue of application developers when they built a mobile web browser that is already in use globally. Osine Ikhianosime 13, and Anesi Ikhianosime 15 who co-developed ‘Crocodile… May 28, 2015 In "Education"