The 12-team field for the Tokyo 2020 Women’s Olympic Basketball Tournament was confirmed following the completion of the four FIBA Women’s Olympic Qualifying Tournaments, with history made for Belgium and Puerto Rico, who are set for their maiden Olympic appearances. On Sunday, the last six tickets to the Olympics were claimed by Australia, Belgium, Korea, Puerto Rico, Serbia and Spain, with Canada, China, France and Nigeria securing Tokyo 2020 berths on Saturday. FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup 2018 champions USA and the hosts of the Olympic Games, Japan, already had guaranteed spots in the Olympics ahead of the FIBA Women’s Olympic Qualifying Tournaments. The full list of Tokyo 2020 Women’s Olympic Basketball Tournament teams: Australia
Belgium
Canada
China
France
Japan
Korea
Nigeria
Puerto Rico
Serbia
Spain
USA Having won all three games, Canada emerged unbeaten from the Ostend, Belgium tournament with the host nation claiming the only other available qualification ticket alongside the automatically qualified Japan. READ ALSO: LeBron, Durant, Irving among 44 finalists for USA Olympic squad France utilized their home-court advantage in Bourges, finishing with a 3-0 record and qualifying alongside Australia and Puerto Rico. Meanwhile, the two tournaments in Belgrade, Serbia saw China, Korea, Nigeria, Spain and Serbia lock in their Tokyo 2020 berths, joining the automatically qualified USA. Emma Meesseman (Belgium), Sandrine Gruda (France), Nneka Ogwumike (USA) and Meng Li (China) received TISSOT MVP awards to headline the All-Star Fives of their respective tournaments following impressive individual displays. CONGRATULATIONS 
 @DtigressNG  @Tokyo2020 !!#FIBAOQT pic.twitter.com/LqApBI3squ — FIBA (@FIBA) February 9, 2020 The Tokyo 2020 Women’s Olympic Basketball Tournament will take place from July 27 – August 9, 2020. The draw for the event will take place on March 21, 2020. The 12 qualified teams will be divided into three groups of four teams each. The Group Phase played in a round robin format, with each team playing the other teams in the group once. The teams placed first and second in each group and the two best third-placed teams in the Group Phase qualify for the Final Phase. FIBA VANGUARD The United States have several Olympic gold medal winners among their 44 finalists for the team that will compete at this summer's Tokyo Games. Among them is LeBron James, who reached the top of the podium at the 2008 and 2012 Olympics, and former FIBA Basketball World Cup MVPs Kevin… February 11, 2020 In "Sports" Nigeria’s senior women’s national Basketball Team, D Tigress on Saturday booked a ticket to the 2020 Olympics Games in Tokyo. February 9, 2020 In "Sports" President Muhammadu Buhari has joined Nigerians and Basketball fans all over the world in celebrating D’Tigers for a successful outing at  FIBA World Cup 2019, defeating China, 86-73, and securing a place for Olympics 2020 September 9, 2019 In "News"