AKURE—MEMBERS of the Ondo State House of Assembly will today reconvene to deliberate on the South West Security Network bill codenamed  Amotekun. This came as the bill passed through first reading when the Osun State House of Assembly debated the bill, yesterday. A public hearing on the State security bill will hold tomorrow at the House of Assembly complex. A statement by the Director of Information Services for the Assembly, Sehinde Fanokun, said that the recall of the members was sequel to the importance of the bill. Fanokun said: “The Executive arm having forwarded the Ondo State Security bill code name  Amotekun  to the House of Assembly, the Speaker, Mr. Oleyelogun Bamidele requested other lawmakers to cut short their recess to attend to this important legislative assignment. “Lawmakers of the Ondo State House of Assembly will resume for legislative business on Tuesday 18th February 2020. “This is to enable them to deliberate on the security bill code name  Amotekun  meant to ensure security across the nooks and crannies of the state. “The lawmakers, who are currently on recess, are supposed to resume on 24th February.” Amotekun Bill scales first reading in Osun Meanwhile, the Amotekun Corps Bill 2020 has passed through first reading as the Osun State House of Assembly debated the bill, yesterday. The bill was presented to the lawmakers at plenary by the Speaker, Mr. Timothy Owoeye. Owoeye stated that while Governor Adegboyega Oyetola forwarded the bill to the house, he (Governor) requested that the bill is given accelerated hearing. Owoeye said: “We also agreed that all the Southwest Assemblies should conduct a public hearing on Monday, February 24 on the bill so that stakeholders will have a say and make contributions.” READ ALSO: UPDATED: Ekiti Assembly passes Amotekun Bill “After the public hearing on the Bill, the conference of Southwest speakers will meet again on Wednesday, February 26 with the Commissioners for Justice in the region to look at the inputs and contributions of stakeholders on the bill before it becomes a law.” Owoeye said the Bill emanated from the forum of Southwest governors to attend to the insecurity in the region and the country as a whole. Thereafter, the bill was read by the leader of the house, Mr. Moruf Olarewaju for the first time and scaled through the first reading. Vanguard ...Assembly on recess but to reconvene to attend to the bill By Dayo Johnson LEADERSHIP of the Ondo state House of Assembly Thursday confirmed the receipt of the bill on the south-west Security Network Agency and Amotekun Corps codenamed “Operation Amotekun” from the executive arm of government. Speaker of the… February 13, 2020 In "News" By Dayo Johnson The Ondo State Executive Council Wednesday approved a draft bill of the Ondo State Security Network Agency and Amotekun Corps codenamed “Operation Amotekun”. The bill will be transmitted to the State House of Assembly for legislative scrutiny after which it would be passed into law. Commissioner for… February 12, 2020 In "News" SPEAKERS of the Houses of Assembly in the South West, yesterday, expressed their readiness to accelerate the passage of the bill on the security outfit, codenamed Amotekun, as soon as it is forwarded to them by the executive arm of government. February 5, 2020 In "News"