 Gov. Hope Uzodinma of Imo State has described the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, as a strategic military leader who is committed to defending the territorial integrity of his country. This was contained in a statement issued by the acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, on Friday in Abuja. Musa quoted the governor as saying making the remarks at the launch of a biography on Buratai, written by Col. Benedict Achodo (rtd.) in Abuja. The  book is entitled: “Biography and Strategic Leadership of Selected Commanders in Military Operations: Lt.-Gen. Tukur Yusufu Buratai and Six Others in Perspective”. Uzodinma, who was represented by the Eze Udo IV of Obilobi Uratta Ancient Kingdom in Owerri North Local Government area of Imo, Prof. Amaobi Uwaleke, said that the book was a tools-kit for training future military leaders. According to the governor, Buratai’s approach to leadership has made him to always lead the battle and find offensives against terrorists, recovering arms, ammunition, villages and rescuing captives from the Boko Haram insurgents. He further stressed that the book underpinned the opening of an entirely new area, which included the comparative study by student- officers on biographies of selected military commanders. Uzodinma appreciated the author, noting that the book was a must-read for all military leaders. In his remarks, the author said that he was motivated into writing the book based on his experiences as a military commander. He noted that the book captured the evolving challenges of the Fourth Generation Warfare and Hybrid Wars. Ochodo disclosed that the whole idea of the book was to use it as a tool-kit for the training of future military commanders. NAN reports that Buratai was represented at the occasion by the Chief of Civil Military Affairs, Maj.-Gen U. S. Mohammed, while some principal staff officers from the army headquarters were also in attendance. The Chief of Army of Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, wept on Monday as he read the funeral oration at the graveside of the seven military men killed by the Boko Haram terrorists. November 7, 2016 In "News" To render selfless and rewarding public service in Nigeria or elsewhere is not something akin to a simple nursery rhyme pupils recite in class sessions. It requires time and commitment; it needs energy, self-depravity, discipline, determination, inspiration and undiluted focus on goals and targets as well as vigorous pursuit of… July 18, 2017 In "News" Abuja - The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, on Tuesday addressed top US defence officials and policy leaders on the efforts made by the military in the fight against insurgency in the North-East. Army spokesman, Col. Sani Usman, said in a telephone interview that Buratai spoke at the… September 15, 2016 In "News"