The Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, has described the de-radicalisation, empowerment and rehabilitation of Boko Haram suspects as troubling and suspicious. Samson Ayokunle, CAN President, said this at briefing in Abuja to mark the second year of Leah Sharibu’s abduction, noting that it is shameful that despite Nigeria’s military forces, killings in the country have not let up. His words: “The setting free of so-called ex-Boko Haram terrorists under de-radicalisation, rehabilitation, empowerment of the arrested terrorists by the federal government is rather troubling and suspicious,” he said. “What is the guarantee that the freed ex-terrorists would not return to Sambisa forest and pick up their arms against innocent Nigerians?” ALSO READ: Dasuki, Sowore’s release from custody, FG’s Christmas gift to Nigerians – CAN Represented by Caleb Ahima, CAN Vice President, Ayokunle said: “The development is a shame and there is a cloud of confusion that hangs over the nation and the people that are governing this nation are not doing the right thing. “We are sure of one thing: we cannot doubt that the government knows what is happening. Looking at the fact that we are a nation, we have the Air Force, Navy and soldiers. We have the weapons, but what is happening in this nation? “We call on the Federal Government again that we are getting to a point of anarchy. We have every reason to be suspicious and to speak passionately to the government again that Christians in this nation are Nigerians and must not be killed. “We want the world to know the evil that is happening in the country under the watch of this government. More blood is being shed. The killing is religious. Boko Haram sect wants to establish an Islamic state. We must stop these killings.” He asked Buhari to fulfill his promise of securing the release of those held in Boko Haram captivity, adding that it is painful that the government has not deemed it fit to secure Sharibu’s freedom. Vanguard By Luminous Jannamike Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has said President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise before the 2015 election that all citizens abducted by Boko Haram would be rescued has not been fulfilled. The umbrella Christian body also frowned at the Federal Government's release of arrested Boko Haram terrorists under its… February 20, 2020 In "News" Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has called on the Federal Government to deploy adequate public resources towards securing the freedom of all Christians held in the captivity of two factions of Boko Haram terrorists. January 6, 2020 In "News" President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Rev. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle has cautioned the Federal Government over continued excuses for the killing of Christians in the North even as he urged the administration to avoid accusation of favouritism of one religion in its appointments. April 22, 2017 In "News"