People with disabilities, in collaboration with women and youth groups, have called on the leadership of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bauchi state to support increased participation for marginalized groups. The marginalized groups which were supported and trained by the International Republican Institute (IRI) pleaded with the party leadership to honour the 35 per cent affirmative action for mainstream marginalized groups in the structures and processes of the party. Speaking at an advocacy meeting on Thursday, PDP youth leader, Murtala Abubakar who spoke on behalf of the groups said the advocacy visit was to discuss opportunities for enhancing the participation of women, youths and people living with disabilities in the forthcoming party congresses. “We are desirous of more interventions from the governor and the state PDP leadership to improve the participation of women, youths and people living with disabilities within the party and the government. We seek the implementation of the 35 per cent affirmative action in the forthcoming party congresses which will take on the 7th and 21st of March and on 4th of April. “With humility, we appeal to the governor of Bauchi state, Senator Bala Mohammed to keep his promise of facilitating the election of at least one woman from each of our 20 local government areas, to enable us have fair representation in the party and in government,” he said. Reacting, the Chairman of PDP in the state, Hamza Akuyam, represented by Secretary of the party, assured the marginalized groups that they will be carried along in the forthcoming party congresses and beyond. VANGUARD Abuja - The All Progressives Congress (APC) says the signing into law of the Not-Too-Young-To-Run Bill by President Muhammadu Buhari is another promise kept by the current administration. Malam Bolaji Abdullahi, the APC National Publicity Secretary, said this in a statement on Friday in Abuja. “This is indeed another promise… June 2, 2018 In "News" By Peter Okutu A group under the aegis of International Republic Institute, IRI, Wednesday, blamed the inability of Nigerian youths to successfully seek elective positions in the 2019 general elections on the role of godfatherism, lack of funding, delegate system of political parties, none membership of political party, wrong perception… May 23, 2019 In "News" Northeast Progressives Youth Forum (NPYF), a group of youths from the northeast has hailed the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for zoning party's Board of Trustees Chairmanship, Deputy Senate Presidency and Leadership of the House of Representatives to the area. April 23, 2015 In "News"