Adamawa/Taraba State Customs Command of the Nigeria Customs Service, NCS, has impounded trailer load of 330 kilogrammes of Pangolin scales, foreign rice stuffed in bags of beans. The seizures also include 33,000 litres of petroleum products valued at N98.3 million. Customs Area Comptroller, Kamardeen Olumoh, who addressed newsmen at the headquarters in Yola on Tuesday, said the trailer was impounded and brought to the headquarters with the content from where it was seized along the Yola-Mubi road. He said the rice was hidden and presented as beans to deceive Nigerian Customs personnel who have been enforcing the federal government’s policy against the importation of rice. “At the end of the count, we discovered that 256 bags of parboiled rice smuggled into the country were packed with the beans.” He said both commodities and the trailer conveying them would be forfeited and warned owners of trailers and trucks to be mindful of those who drive their vehicles as vehicles found to have been used to convey contraband goods would always be seized with the goods. Reviewing the services of the command for 2019, the Customs Area Controller, Kamardeen said that the command surpassed its target in 2019. According to him, “The command, though an enforcement area generated total revenue of N161.9 million realising an increase of N13.2 million or 8.9 over the given target of N148.6 million for the year under review. Vanguard Nigeria News The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Ogun State Command impounded 65 trailer-loads of 600 bags of rice each from smugglers between January and November. The comptroller in charge of the state command, Haruna Mamudu, said this at the Idiroko border station of the NCS while briefing journalists about its activities during… December 14, 2014 In "News" The Nigeria Customs Service, CG Strike Force, last week, apparently spoilt the Christmas and New Year celebration for smugglers, following a comprehensive raid of Oniko, a village in Moro Local Government Area of Kwara State, believed to be a major hideout for smuggled items, confiscating a total of 8,413 bags… January 2, 2019 In "Maritime Report" FEW hours after the Oyo State Police Command arrested a man with 3,500 live cartridges, the Oyo/Osun Area Command of Nigeria Customs Service also impounded a vehicle loaded with 56,750 rounds of ammunition at Saki in Oke Ogun area of Oyo State. May 23, 2013 In "News"