Christians Association of Nigeria, CAN, has refuted President Muhammadu Buhari’s claim that 90 per cent of Boko Haram victims were Muslims, saying he was being dishonest about the reality on the ground. Rev. John Hayab, CAN’s Vice Chairman (Northern region), said in a chat with Vanguard on Tuesday that the umbrella Christian body was not surprised by the President’s claim if recent utterances by his spokesmen over the persecution of Christians were considered. He said, “If President Buhari truly made that claim, then we cannot be surprised going by the things his spokesman, Femi Adesina said after the killing of Rev Lawan Andimi. “We believe Adesina wrote the column on behalf of his principal to affirm the things he has said, himself, about the attack on Christians by Boko Haram terrorists. “But there is a difference between what they say in the media and the actual happenings on the ground. In Nigeria, it will be dishonesty for anyone to claim that 90 percent of Boko Haram victims have to be Muslims. “We believe it is not true. However, this is part of the denials that have caused problems in this country. “Instead of accepting the reality of our problems, our leaders prefer to live in denials. No serious-minded person will believe the President is being honest in his claims. “We make bold to say the Federal Government has not commissioned any multi-stakeholder survey to ascertain the facts and figures. Let the President show him the full facts backing his claims. “A leader who is supposed to unite the people need not exhibit certain sentiments such as have been conveyed by President Buhari in his claim.” vanguard PRESIDENT Mohammadu Buhari Tuesday declared that 90 per cent of all Boko Haram's victims in the past years have been Muslims. February 4, 2020 In "News" The United Christian Forum of Nigeria (UCFN) has accused opposition leaders and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) of helping insurgents achieve the aim of creating unrest in the country. The forum made the claim following the recent insurgence attacks and killing of Nigerians in north-east and reactions from the… January 27, 2020 In "News" ABUJA — The December 25, 2019, killing of 11 Christians by a Boko Haram affiliate, Islamic State West Africa Province, ISWAP, has drawn more condemnations of the Federal Government from the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, PFN and regional bodies in the country with Afenifere, Arewa… December 31, 2019 In "News"