One of Nigeria’s most popular and successful actors, Yul Edochie, son of legendary actor, Pete Edochie may have opened a can of worms by his assertion on Twitter a couple of days back. ‘Desperate Housewives’ actor, Orson Bean dies after being hit by car https://t.co/Df7mLKYOPr #vanguardnews pic.twitter.com/VL36Av1OQy — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) February 8, 2020  The politician-cum movie star by his statement affirmed that there is truly casting couch syndrome, commonly known as ‘sexual harassment’ in the industry, adding that many male practitioners have been wrecked by the law of karma in this regard. Edochie tweeted, “ I condemn sex for jobs completely. If na your way, hear this advice. If you promise a girl a job in exchange for sex, once she gives you, make sure you do not fail her. If she swears for you, your own don finish. This matter has wrecked many men, especially Nollywood practitioners.” Ras Kimono’s bassist Umar Baba Ahmed relieves good, bad times with him https://t.co/0aoVgWhYrx #vanguardnews pic.twitter.com/RZl1Sf5rf6 — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) February 8, 2020  Yul Edochie, who was named after a popular Russian actor, Yul Brynner has become something of a social commentator on social media, dishing out admonitions and inspiration on social issues on a regular basis. VANGUARD Nollywood actor cum politician, Yul Edochie has come out to say he will never pray for his enemies and wish them well, as he does not believe in wishing an enemy well, while the enemy is out to do him evil. November 12, 2019 In "Entertainment" YUL Edochie, son of veteran actor, Pete Edochie, has added his voice concerning the rising cases of domestic violence in the Nigerian entertainment industry. June 1, 2017 In "Entertainment" Nigerian actor and politician, Yul Edochie have taken to social media to announce to the world that he is now a born again Christian. Recall that day back, the popular Nollywood actor, Yul Edochie, revealed that he survived a major road accident during a trip to the eastern part of… June 14, 2019 In "News"