The Federal Government on Thursday declared that President Muhammadu Buhari will not resign over the insecurity challenge. The minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed who made this declaration also said the government will not go back on its plans to regulate the social media. He also clarified that normal international flights have resumed in Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos. Mohammed made the clarifications at a briefing in Abuja. He said: “As I said earlier, the country is facing security challenges, and the challenges are being tackled headlong. “However, there have been some red herrings in recent times, including those calling for the resignation of Mr. President or the sack of the security chiefs. “I just want to say that the government, which has provided and continues to provide the military and the security agencies with the wherewithal, believes in their ability to tackle insecurity. “These challenges will be successfully tackled. I will, however, advise all commentators, especially political and religious leaders, to be very careful at this time not to aggravate the situation with incendiary comments, comments that cash in on our religious, ethnic and political fault lines to further divide us. “The kind of comments that have been attributed to some leaders, especially religious leaders, are incendiary and reckless. Leaders should be part of solutions to problems, rather than aggravating situations. “To those asking Mr. President to resign, I wish to say this: Mr. President will not resign.” “He has the overwhelming mandate of Nigerians to preside over the affairs of the country till the expiration of his tenure in May 2023.” Vanguard Nigeria News ABUJA — Worried over the escalating security situation in the country, the House of Representatives,, yesterday asked service chiefs to immediately resign their offices or be sacked by President Muhammed Buhari. January 30, 2020 In "News" ABUJA — Igbo apex socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo; pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere; Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF; founding member of the Arewa Consultative Forum and Kano politician, Alhaji Tanko Yakassi; Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, former Provost-Marshal, Nigerian Army, Brigadier-General Idada Ikponmwen (retd) and Professor ABC Nwosu, yesterday, backed the… January 31, 2020 In "News" DESPITE the controversy over the establishment of Ruga settlements for the Fulanis by the Federal Government, Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State on Monday said that the people of the state were entirely in support of the project. July 1, 2019 In "News"