Uyo—The Speaker of Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Mr Aniekan Bassey, warned yesterday that Miyetti Allah would be held responsible for any killing by herdsmen in the state. He gave the warning as the Commissioner of Police in the state, Imohimi Edgal, advised  community leaders in the state to engage in regular security meetings with their respective Divisional Police Officers, DPOs. Bassey, who was represented by the Chairman, House Committee on Youths and Security, Nse Essien, spoke during a townhall meeting/security summit of Uyo Area Command of the Police. “Akwa Ibom House of Assembly has received motions where herdsmen kill two people. We will hold leadership of Miyetii Allah  Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria  responsible if our people are killed . “We are peace loving but let it not be taken for granted. Leadership of Miyetti Allah should make sure that every of its member that comes to Akwa Ibom State is provided a home” he said. Speaking at the town hall meeting, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Imohimi Edgal,  advised  community leaders in the state to engage in regular security meetings with their respective Divisional Police Officers, DPOs. Edgal emphasized that if local government council chairmen, paramount rulers  held enlarged security meetings monthly or every two months with the DPO’s, it would help to tackle security situations in the rural areas. He further advised the Local Government Chairmen to hold a monthly security meeting with the DPOs in their area, and an enlarged meeting with the paramount rulers once in two months. The CP said the achievements of the command, since his assumption of duties in the state, highlighted the importance of collaboration and cooperation between communities and the police in crime fighting. “ The regular security meetings with the Local government Council Chairmen will help in crime fighting and prevention. “Soon, there will be recruitment for Community Policing Officers, CPOs. The CPOs will act as liaison between the police and the community in security and other matters. “From December last year to February 25, 2020, the Police under my Command has arrested a total of 171 suspects for various offences. We have also rescued 19 persons who were kidnapped either within or outside the state. Vanguard UYO—Akwa Ibom State government has warned marauding herdsmen not to infringe on the rights of people through their trade, expressing discontent over unprovoked attacks on residents of the state. August 12, 2019 In "News" A coalition of Niger Delta  militants, yesterday, gave the Federal Government a 21-day notice over herdsmen's killings across the country, especially the latest development in Plateau State. July 2, 2018 In "Headlines" The tribal leaders pointed out that the Benue anti-open grazing law does not stultify the culture, movement or economic interests of any person or group of persons, including members of the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore Fulani Association June 3, 2018 In "News"