Angolan leader Joao Lourenco on Friday told visiting German Chancellor Angela Merkel that his reformist government was working to recover funds stolen from public coffers and stashed abroad. Last month, Angola indicted Isabel dos Santos, the 46-year-old billionaire daughter of ex-president Jose Eduardo dos Santos, for a host of top-level financial crimes, including money laundering and influence peddling. “With the support of everyone, civil society and specialised international institutions, we are implementing initiatives to combat money laundering, as well as to recover assets that have been set up with public resources… (or) been illegally transferred… outside the country,” he said. He said his government was determined to fight corruption in the graft-tainted oil-rich country. “We are deepening the foundations of the rule of law, where there is no impunity for acts of corruption and for practices of nepotism and influence peddling,” he said in address during Merkel’s one-day visit to the country. Dos Santos built up a vast business empire over the past two decades, with stakes in several Angolan and Portuguese companies. Her fortune is valued at $2.1 billion (1.8 billion euros) by Forbes Magazine, which named her Africa’s richest woman in 2013. Angola’s prosecutors have accused dos Santos of mismanagement and embezzlement of funds during her tenure at Sonangol, Angola’s state-owned oil giant which she once headed during her father’s rule. She was forced out of the job months after her father stepped down in 2017 and was replaced by his hand-picked successor, Lourenco. A consortium of investigative journalists, after analysing a trove of hundreds of thousands of leaked documents, has also accused dos Santos of looting state coffers during her father’s nearly four-decade rule. Dos Santos has denied any wrongdoing and says she is a victim of a witch hunt. Merkel visited South Africa and Angola to talks to boost trade and business ties between Germany and the two African countries. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. German Chancellor Angela Merkel, on Friday pledged to help Angola investigate corruption allegations against Isabel dos-Santos, the daughter of former long-term President Jose dos-Santos and reportedly Africa’s richest woman. Isabel dos-Santos has recently come under investigation and international scrutiny after being accused of embezzling millions of dollars of public money… February 7, 2020 In "Foreign" Angola’s President João Lourenço has told Angolans to repatriate funds illegally held abroad in coming months or risk prosecution, in a bid to spur domestic investment and combat corruption. December 14, 2017 In "News" German Chancellor Angela Merkel is scheduled to meet Angolan President, Joao Lourenco on Friday, on the second leg of her three-day visit to southern Africa. February 7, 2020 In "News"