Lagos State Government on Sunday described as 90 percent, the compliance level on the ban of commercial motorcycle and tricycle in the state. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, in a statement, hailed the operators for complying with the restriction in six local government areas, major highways, and bridges across the state. The enforcement of the State Security Council’s order on motorcycle and tricycle began on February 1. He said: “The level of compliance was over 90 percent. In fact, some of the ride-hailing companies directed their riders to obey the directive. This is commendable. “The high level of compliance has shown that Lagosians agree with the government on the need to stop the danger that commercial motorcycles and tricycles have become – a big threat to the safety of lives and security of our people. They should stand firm in supporting the government. “The little discomfort experienced by commuters on some routes due to the absence of motorcycles and tricycles is noted. This will not last, as alternatives are being rolled out. “A fleet of 65 buses will join the others on some major routes as from Monday, February 3, 2020.” The commissioner said at least 550 more buses were being expected and 14 ferries would be commissioned on Tuesday. According to him, this will further open up the waterways, reduce travel time on various routes and provide safe, dependable and comfortable alternatives for commuters. Omotoso said the government was not unaware that enforcing this directive might lead to some job losses. He said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu planned to announce some measures to tackle the likely effects of the order. He said this was beside the programmes of various agencies, such as the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Office of Civic Engagement and Lagos State Parks and Gardens (LASPARK), among others. “The government hereby warns all those who are planning to unleash violence on the state because of the ongoing enforcement to have a change of heart. “Lagosians are peace-loving and law-abiding people, who will not embrace any disruption of their legal activities by failed politicians hiding under the evil of unwholesome activism. “The law enforcement agents have been directed to ensure that nobody takes the law into his hands. ”The government places a very high premium on law and order in the interest of all Lagosians. It will not fail to act when peace is threatened,” he concluded. (NAN)  Vanguard The Lagos State Government says the compliance level on the ban of commercial motorcycle (Okada) and tricycle (Keke) is over 90 per cent. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, in a statement on Sunday, hailed the operators for complying with the restriction in six local government areas,… February 2, 2020 In "News" The Lagos State Government on Monday announced plans to commence total enforcement of the 2012 state Traffic Law on activities of motorcyclists, popularly called Okada and tricycles, called "Keke Marwa" on restricted routes and bridges. The restriction and enforcement also affect the newly introduced "Opay ride, Gokada ride" and other… February 1, 2020 In "News" The Lagos State Government has announced plans to halt the abuse of traffic laws by motorcycle and tricycle riders, saying the menace can no longer be condoned. January 12, 2020 In "News"