Rangers manager Steven Gerrard insisted Friday he had no qualms about publicly upbraiding his players after a damaging defeat at Kilmarnock all but handed the Scottish Premiership title to arch Glasgow rivals Celtic. Wednesday’s 2-1 loss at Rugby Park left Rangers 10 points behind leaders Celtic, who moved closer to a ninth successive title with a 5-0 thrashing of Hearts. Rangers manager Gerrard said his side had “failed to handle the heat” at Rugby Park and would now face questions regarding their courage. Those comments led former Celtic striker turned television pundit Chris Sutton to say Gerrard had “chucked the players under the bus”. But Liverpool great Gerrard insisted there was no point in him trying to spare the team’s feelings after such a setback. “My way of looking back at what I said is that I always try to be honest,” he said. “At the time, I felt like we’d really let ourselves down and I took responsibility for the group’s performance on the night.” The former England midfielder added: “So I have no regrets for what I said on the night.” Gerrard said the price of him lauding his players when things went well was being able to criticise them after a sub-standard display. “These players have had an incredible amount of praise and protection from me since day one and that will continue,” he said. “But if I see things that I don’t feel are right at that moment — good, bad or indifferent — I will always speak the truth.” Gerrard added: “Am I allowed to criticise my players? Is that not my job? So what’s the problem? What would you have thought of me if I had said after the game, ‘there is no problem here, it’s all fine?’ “Constructive criticism as a manager coming my way now is totally fine. I deserve it.” VANGUARD Steven Gerrard admitted he was shocked by how poor his Rangers side were as they suffered a 2-1 defeat at bottom-of-the-table Hearts in his 100th game in charge. Gerrard's men had not lost in the Scottish Premiership since early September and looked to have ended some stiff first half resistence… January 26, 2020 In "Sports" Steven Gerrard's first foray into management under the spotlight at Rangers drew plenty of skepticism, but in his first three months in the Glasgow goldfish bowl, the former England captain has barely put a foot wrong. September 1, 2018 In "Sports" Teenager Bruce Anderson's goal in time added on denied Rangers manager Steven Gerrard a winning debut in the Scottish Premiership as Aberdeen secured a 1-1 draw with 10-man Rangers. August 5, 2018 In "News"