Tragedy struck Tuesday as two staff of Abuja Electricity Distribution Company, AEDC, were attacked by an angry electricity consumer in Kabusa area of Abuja leaving one dead and the other seriously injured. Although, the cause of the fight is still sketchy,  but the General Manager, Media and Communication of AEDC, Mr Oyebode Fadipe, who confirmed the incident explained that it was not that there was a fight or  the workers were disconnecting his house, he just came from behind and stabbed the two workers. According to him,” One of them has died and the other is receiving treatment in a hospital,” He, however, confirmed that the culprit has been apprehended and he is in the police station. In a terse statement by one of the staff who prefers anonymity, noted “The worst happened in AEDC as the company has lost one of its staff. “Two of them were stabbed. While one died, the other survived. “At last, the worst has happened.  Two of our staff were stabbed today in Kubusa by an aggrieved customer who stabbed the deceased from behind. While one of them died, the other is still receiving treatment at the hospital.” Vanguard The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has left residents of Sauka ka huta, Mandela and Tima Junction in Chanchaga Local Government Area of Niger without electricity for the past six days after one of the company’s workers was allegedly beaten up by some youth in a beer parlour. October 29, 2019 In "News" The sufferings and hardship currently witnessed by Nigerians across the country took a turn for the worse in Abuja in the last couple of days as Abuja Electricity Distribution Company‎ reduced power supply to the Federal Capital Territory and neighbouring states to an average of six hours. December 1, 2015 In "News" ABUJA — The hardship currently witnessed by Nigerians across the country took a turn for the worse in Abuja in the last couple of days as Abuja Electricity Distribution Company reduced power supply to the Federal Capital Territory and neighbouring states to an average of six hours a day. December 2, 2015 In "News"