Togo’s President Faure Gnassingbe had on Thursday insisted he was not a “dictator”, days before an election which resulted in him extending his family’s decades-long domination over the West African nation. The Togo leader will be serving fourth term in power, after winning the Saturday, a move made possible after the constitution was changed to allow Gnassingbe to run again. Critics say the vote will not be fair as the opposition has faced a crackdown to snuff out a wave of protests. However, Gnassingbe told AFP in a joint interview with Le Monde newspaper that such accusations were “more due to reputation than reality”. “Sometimes these statements and opinions are exaggerated — in any case, I don’t feel like a dictator,” he said. The president took over in 2005 after the death of his father Gnassingbe Eyadema, who ruled for 38 years after seizing power in a coup. “I can’t change my name,” the current leader said. “I don’t think that my being his son should be a reason for exclusion.” Gnassingbe said he was “calm and confident” of securing a knockout victory in the first round of the polls. The opposition has failed to stick together since rocking the country’s ruling clan with huge protests in 2017 and 2018. Parliament approved constitutional changes last May that allowed Gnassingbe to stand in this week’s vote and run for a fifth five-year term in 2025. The president said he was focused on winning Saturday’s vote and not yet looking ahead to the next election. “I can not tell you if I will stand in 2025, so I don’t know what will happen in 2030,” he said. “What I can say is that I will always respect my country’s constitution.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Togo's government was surprised by how many people took to the streets earlier this month to demand the removal of President Faure Gnassingbe. September 23, 2017 In "News" Protesters again took to the streets of Togo's capital Lome on Saturday to demonstrate against the rule of President Faure Gnassingbe, who was in Nigeria chairing a summit of West African leaders. Anti-government marches have been held across the country nearly every week since August, attracting hundreds of thousands of… December 16, 2017 In "News" Following the continued protest against the already 12 years rule of President Faure Gnassingbe of Togo by some Togolese in the country’s opposition party, Former Nigerian President, Olusegun Obasanjo has urged Gnassingbe to step down “unless he has something new” for his people. September 8, 2017 In "News"