Owerri —Governor Hope Uzodinma of  Imo State, yesterday, gave last warning to groups and  people in the state, whom he said have engaged in inciting the members of the public against the government to stop immediately. Uzodinma handed down the warning  at the front of Government House, in Owerri, while receiving hundreds of the members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, who came on solidarity march led by the chairman, Izuchukwu Okebaram. Uzodinma said his warning was for them to allow the state move forward to provide good governance to Imolites. He said: “You will agree with me that as I am standing here,  I am the governor, and governor of everybody in Imo and not All Progressives Congress, APC, alone. “What I am assuring you is that under my administration, there will be no discrimination in Imo State. That is what I promise all of you. I urge you to go ahead and support moving Imo State forward. “I will address your challenges one by one. Your association is one of the organised associations that is closest to the people in the society and I promise you that our government will not interfere in your activities and I ask you to shun people who want to incite the public against the government. “I have given those of them who want to incite Imo people time and if they don’t stop, I will personally call them to order. We will not allow them destroy our state. “Our plan is to ensure that in our policies and programmes , the good people of Imo State will be happy. “And again, dry season is fast coming and the contractors are not on  sites and if we wait for them till next Tuesday and they failed to come, I will cancel those contracts. We are interested in moving the state forward.” Chairman of Imo State NURTW, Okebaram, who presented their challenges to the governor, said, among other things: “Our mission here today (yesterday) is to congratulate you on your victory as the governor of the state. We are happy to see the restoration of your mandate.” Vanguard The Imo state governor, Hope Uzodinma, on Thursday gave last warning to groups of people in the state, whom he said have engaged in inciting the members of the public against the government to stop immediately. February 6, 2020 In "Politics" OWERRI—The national chairman of Accord Party, Mohammad Nalado, yesterday asked the people of Imo State to vote the governorship candidate of his party, Ikedi Ohakim as the next governor of the state. January 22, 2019 In "News" ABUJA—The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, reiterated its confidence in the possibility of the Supreme Court to reverse its decision on the Imo State governorship election. January 21, 2020 In "Politics"