Barcelona coach Quique Setien insists his team were the better side and took a ‘step forward’ in Thursday night’s Copa del Rey quarter-final defeat to Athletic Bilbao at San Mames. Iñaki Williams scored a stoppage-time winner for Athletic Club, which consigned Barcelona to defeat and made it the first time since 2013 they have failed to reach the Copa del Rey final. But, despite defeat, Setien was looking for positives after the final whistle. “The team played well today. I think we were the better side,” he is quoted as saying by SPORT. “It’s not easy to control the game against Athletic, but I don’t think [Marc-Andre] Ter Stegen had a save to make in the whole game. In the second half, we had four or five clear chances and their goal arrived with no time to react.” Aside from the obvious result, Setien argued that ‘everything went well’ for his team. “It’s sad to get knocked out, but I think we took a step forward in terms of where we must improve. A lot of things beyond the result will stay with me from a really complicated and difficult game,” the coach explained. Defender Gerard Pique insisted that Barcelona are not in crisis, telling Marca in the mixed zone that the “unity of the dressing room is incredible” and now is “not the time to dig up dirt”. The centre-back echoed his manager’s comments that the performance represented a positive. “What I can say is that our confidence is at its highest, we’re happy with the way we’ve played and reacted to the outside noise,” he said. “It’s really hard because we were eliminated; we took an important step, we had a very positive feeling – it was a very important step forward.” Barcelona return to action in La Liga on Sunday evening when Setien leads the team against former club Real Betis at Benito Villamarin. Fotmob Vanguard News Barcelona Quique Setien said on Tuesday that Barcelona are considering signing another striker before the end of the January transfer window to replace the injured Luis Suarez. Suarez is unlikely to play again this season after undergoing surgery on his knee earlier this month, which has left Barca short in… January 21, 2020 In "Sports" Quique Setien is charged with leading Barcelona to glory on three fronts this season after being appointed as Ernesto Valverde's successor. Barca are top of La Liga and into the Champions League last 16, while they begin their tilt at the Copa del Rey against Ibiza next week. However, club… January 15, 2020 In "Sports" Barcelona have replaced their coach Ernesto Valverde with Quique Setien according to a club statement. The decision to remove Valverde was taken during a board meeting that lasted more than four hours at Camp Nou on Monday afternoon. An official statement was issued on Monday night, with a press conference… January 14, 2020 In "Sports"