Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has vowed to continue fighting for Nigeria’s unity until his last breath. Obasanjo, who spoke yesterday at the first memorial lecture of the founder of Oodua People’s Congress, Dr. Fredrick Fasehun in Lagos, however said “this fight is not to make my children and my race second class citizens.” Bemoaning the increasing rate of insecurity in the country, Obasanjo lamented that Boko Haram had continued to wax stronger over the past 12 years. “If Boko Haram can get external support, any group that decided to go will get support from within and outside. So we must address the issue now. The language we are using to address ourselves across the region now is uncouth and it must not continue.” He said Nigeria could not afford to be plunged into another war at this time because such might not be easy to win. He said, “When I was elected President the agitation was true federalism but now it is restructuring. According to the former president, Nigeria needs to address the matter of restructuring now, maintaining that failure to do this might lead to grave consequences. “If we don’t address it they may go from restructuring to self-determination and this will become a more serious problem. Vanguard National Christian Elders Forum, NCEF, and Nobel laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, have thrown their weight behind Chief Olusegun Obasanjo’s call for an end to insecurity in the country. May 24, 2019 In "News" THE Federal Government, yesterday, thumbed down former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s comments, weekend, that the Boko Haram insurgency has become an agenda to ‘Fulanise’ West Africa and Islamise Africa. May 22, 2019 In "Headlines" A FEW days after the 2018 Global Terrorism Index categorised Nigeria as the third most terrorised country in the world after Iraq and Afghanistan, former President Olusegun Obasanjo gave an unusual but brutally frank assessment of the Boko Haram insurgency in the country with a damning verdict on the mission… May 21, 2019 In "Candid Notes"