The Kaduna State Ministry of Health on Saturday said it has recorded successfully treated two lassa fever victims out of the eight confirmed cases on admission in hospitals. The government, however, a 40-year-old man confirmed to be carrying the disease on at the ABUTH, Zaria, is now receiving treatment at the Infectious Deseases Control  Centre. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr Amina Mohammed-Baloni, said in a statement on Saturday in Kaduna that four of the patients had died. She explained that only eight out of the 74 suspected cases reported from Jan. 22, were confirmed to have Lassa fever. “Out of the eight confirmed cases, the first patient had died due to late presentation, while the second and third cases have been cured, affirmed negative and discharged home. “However,  the fourth and fifth cases were diagnosed after they had died. “Similarly, the sixth case had travelled from Ebonyi State and is receiving treatment at the Infectious Disease Control Centre (IDCC). “In addition, the seventh, who is also deceased, had travelled from Kebbi State but died while on admission at Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH), Zaria, before being diagnosed. “This brings to two the number of confirmed cases receiving treatment at the IDCC at the moment. “In view of this, the general public is advised to further ensure that all cases of fevers are tested for malaria before treatment.” She added that people should report anyone with the Lassa fever disease symptoms, for early treatment. The commissioner also advised residents to continue  maintaining high level of personal hygiene and environmental sanitation to avoid contracting the disease. “Kaduna State Ministry of Health is  continuing  its   sensitization, via  radio jingles on preventive measures, active case searches and contact listing to further curtail the spread of the disease.  Lassa Fever can be treated and  it is indeed  curable. “ [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. By Ibrahim Hassan Commissioner of health in Kaduna state, Dr. Amina Mohammed Baloni has confirmed a new case of Lassa Fever in the state. She said a 40-year-old male with the fever, was recorded on Friday, February 21st,  2020 at the ABUTH, Zaria and was receiving treatment at the IDCC.… February 22, 2020 In "Health" Kaduna State Ministry of Health on Monday confirmed the death of a 36-year-old male who tested positive to Lassa fever in the state. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr Amina Baloni, announced this at a news conference in Kaduna, adding that the patient died on Sunday night and had already… January 27, 2020 In "Health" As 7 doctors, 5 nurses quarantined in Adamawa By Demola Akinyemi, Shina Abubakar, Gabriel Olawale & Ike Uchechukwu Four persons have been confirmed dead in Taraba State just as Kaduna State announced the death of 36-year-old man on Monday following the outbreak of Lassa fever in the country. According to… January 28, 2020 In "Health"