THE Presidency on Monday dismissed as fake the report that President Muhammadu Buhari is billed to travel to the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, and Austria. The Presidency in a statement issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, described the purported traveling plan as fake and warned Nigerians to beware of merchants of fake news currently on the prowl. He said members of the first family, ministers, top government functionaries, and even the military had become victims of fake news. The statement read:  “Purveyors of fake and concocted information are currently on overdrive, and Nigerians are urged to be careful what they consume as news, and also share with others, particularly from the social media. “An unfounded information has been making the rounds that President Muhammadu Buhari is billed to travel to the United Kingdom for 20 days, and from there proceed to Saudi Arabia, and then Austria. It is nothing but falsehood from mischievous minds. “Members of the First Family, ministers, top government officials, the military, and other key institutions, are equally objects of this orchestrated falsehood, coming from enemies of national cohesion. “We urge Nigerians to be discriminatory about what they accept as credible information and restrain themselves from sharing what they have not authenticated as genuine. “ That is how we can all collectively beat the malevolent minds at their pernicious games.”  Vanguard Presidency has on Monday faulted news making the rounds that President Muhammadu Buhari had planned to travel to United Kingdom for 20 days, noting that the story was concocted by mischief makers. February 17, 2020 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA----THE Presidency on Wednesday debunked the allegation by an online medium that the daughter of President Muhammadu Buhari, Zahra has secured employment with the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA). The Presidency said that though Zahra Buhari like any other Nigerian can work wherever she is given… February 13, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian presidency has debunked fake reports over alleged plans to arrest the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen  and frame three other Supreme Court Justices. January 19, 2019 In "News"