FIRST Bank of Nigeria Limited said it would host the second edition of its 2020 SME Business Clinic this week in Port-Harcourt and Abuja respectively.
The bank in a statement said: “the event themed “Building a sustainable Business” would be held on 25th and 27th February 2020 in Port-Harcourt and Abuja respectively.” It stated further that SMEs should  to take the FirstBank SME diagnostic tool on its website in order to stand a chance to be amongst the participants that will be in the SME Business Clinic in Port-Harcourt and Abuja. The bank said: “The FirstBank SME diagnostic tool is designed for SMEs to check the health of their business, better understand it and drive profitability. The SME Clinic will feature one-on-one business advisory services, mentoring, networking opportunities and participants will also be acquainted with the requisite knowledge and business tools needed to drive efficiency in the day-to-day operations of their business.” Speaking on the event, Gbenga Shobo, the Deputy Managing Director, FirstBank, said,  “at FirstBank, we are proud of the giant strides we have taken over the years towards enhancing the SMEs for their businesses to thrive, have a fair play in the market and contribute to the Gross Domestic Product of the country. We remain the trusted financial partner of SMEs and reiterate our resolve to be known as the brand that enables their success; much the same way that we have for over 125 years enabling Nigerians and the economy at large”. The coaches at the event are Seye Olurotimi, Lead Consult at Cedar Tribe Limited, an SME branding expert and business growth consultant with vast experience helping SMEs grow effective brands and Robert Yakubu, founder of the Instabiz Academy and the Business Mastery Program, a digital entrepreneur and business strategist empowering entrepreneurs, marketers and business professionals in Port-Harcourt and Abuja respectively.
The SME Clinic session is organized in partnership with SME Traction, a leading business coaching platform aimed at empowering SMEs to make informed choices about their businesses, thereby facilitating growth and bolstering their contribution to the development of the economy. Understanding the role of SMEs in developing countries of Africa especially Nigeria, Fidelity bank in a recent development has designed an empowerment programmes to boost the activities of SMEs in the country. September 7, 2019 In "Business" Our corporate strategy and the vision of the bank states that we want to build and transfer wealth across generations. The SMEs are part of that strategy. If you focus on the SMEs, it means you have to meet with entrepreneurs at the incubation stage of their business. And if… February 8, 2016 In "Business" FIRST Bank of Nigeria Limited will this week hold its 2019 FirstBank Agric Expo with the theme “Agricultural Value Chain – Spotlighting Opportunities and Managing Risks”. August 26, 2019 In "Business"