Zinedine Zidane said on Tuesday he cannot be sure that Eden Hazard will play again this season after the Belgian suffered another foot injury last weekend. Hazard came off during Madrid’s defeat by Levante on Saturday after making only his second start following almost three months out with a fracture in the same foot. Madrid confirmed another fracture was revealed during tests on Sunday and Zidane has cast doubt on whether Hazard will return this term. “I don’t know if he will need an operation, it’s not my area,” said Zidane in a press conference before Madrid’s Champions League first leg against Manchester City at the Santiago Bernabeu on Wednesday. “And I don’t know if his season is over, I don’t know but I hope not.” Hazard joined Madrid for 100 million euros from Chelsea last summer but has endured a nightmare first year in Spain. He sustained a thigh injury in training the day before the start of the season and after coming back in September, took time to regain form and fitness. Hazard appeared to be finding his rhythm only to suffer his first fracture in November, before his latest set-back last weekend.He has made only 15 appearances for his club this season, scoring one goal. “I can see he’s not happy,” said Zidane. “It’s important he stays positive but of course it’s difficult. It’s a bad moment, it won’t be easy and he will feel like this for a while.” VANGUARD Real Madrid coach Zinedine Zidane defended Gareth Bale on Saturday after the Welshman picking up another injury and also said Eden Hazard is close to a return. Bale will miss Madrid's La Liga game against Real Valladolid on Sunday after he sprained his ankle during Madrid's Copa del Rey win… January 25, 2020 In "Sports" Eden Hazard's injury-plagued start at Real Madrid will continue this month after Zinedine Zidane said on Friday the Belgian will not play in the Spanish Super Cup next week. Hazard suffered an ankle fracture during Madrid's draw against Paris Saint-Germain on November 26 and was expected to be out for… January 4, 2020 In "News" Zinedine Zidane insists his relationship with Real Madrid president Florentino Perez is strong and he is happy with his squad ahead of the transfer window closing on Monday. August 31, 2019 In "News"