The implementation of Lagos Traffic Law banning the operation of commercial motorcycles (Okada) and tricycles (Keke Napep) in some LGAs in the state has made most Lagosians resorted to finding alternatives to convey themselves to work. It appears the old system of transportation is not indeed ancient as Lagosians bemoan the resuscitation of OHorse app. Journey from EkoHotel to Ajah according to the Lagos residents cost N3,000. Nigerians perception of trekking is that the individual who engaged in such is not financially buoyant but not in the instance when the rich cannot find Keke and Okada to convey them, A time everybody is equal on the road as they all lament how long they trek before getting to work. A resident, Adegoke Ismail relating his experience said; “I trecked From Adeniji to Obalende, due to no available bus to carry me and guys stopping bus not to pick any passenger up” Isamotu Babatunde Ololade;  “I enter Ikeja bus from Egbeda for 600naira as against 150 after waiting for almost 2hours,I eventually got to Ikeja around 11 after leaving my house before 6.” Samson Awojebe; “Its affecting seriously, to my surprise this morning where keke will carry for 50 naira I just hard the conductor shouting any bus stop hold your 150 naira, so where are the government helping the common men.” Local Government Areas affected by the newly enforced traffic law (Okada/Keke ban) include: Vanguard News Nigeria. Enforcement records voluntary compliance Commuters stranded as "Danfo" drivers hike fares LASG hails operators, residents for compliance level Describes devt as "impressive, satisfactory' Our correspondents Residents in Lagos on Saturday, February 1st, 2020, woke up to the stark reality of a new dawn in traffic order as the metropolis was… February 2, 2020 In "News" By Dapo Akinrefon The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Lagos State, on Saturday, described the ban on Okada and Keke NAPEP in some areas of the state as unwarranted and needless. Publicity Secretary of the PDP in Lagos State, Mr Taofik Gani, lambasted the state government over the ban saying… February 1, 2020 In "News" The Okada ban has kicked off in Lagos, February 1st after it was announced Monday. The law was reported to have been introduced in 2012 and enforced this year. The affected councils are: Apapa LG Apapa Iganmu LCDA Lagos Mainland LG Yaba LCDA, Surulere LG Itire-Ikate, LCDA Coker-Aguda LCDAs Ikeja… February 1, 2020 In "News"