 THE Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission has commended the management of SIFAX Group for its level of compliance with the terms of agreement stated in the concession signed with the Federal Government for the management of the terminals at Tin-can Island Port. The ICRC management team led by Director, Contract Compliance, Jobson Oseodion Ewalefoh, said that from the assessment of the team, SIFAX Group has scored well on the checklist of the Commission. The visit of the ICRC management is part of its 2020 Compliance and Performance Monitoring of Public Private Partnership (PPP) Projects to Tin Can Island Terminals. A statement signed by its Corporate Communications Officer, Phillip Ojo, read in part, “The executive management team of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission has visited SIFAX Group as part of its 2020 Compliance and Performance Monitoring of Public Private Partnership (PPP) Projects to Tin Can Island Terminals. “At the visit, the ICRC management team led by Dr. Jobson Oseodion Ewalefoh, Director, Contract Compliance, ICRC, hailed SIFAX Group for its level of compliance with the terms of agreement stated in the concession agreement. He noted that from the assessment of the team, SIFAX Group has scored well on the checklist of the Commission,” it concluded. Vanguard The Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) says there is need to urgently resolve disputes relating to concession agreements at Nigerian ports, toward making them more effective and efficient. April 11, 2018 In "News" The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, FAAN,  is insisting that  the General Aviation Terminal, GAT, is not part of the concession granted Messrs Bi Courtney, neither had FAAN admitted to that assertion at any time. It further said before the terminal, MMA2,  presently developed and occupied by BASL got burnt,… January 25, 2018 In "Aviation" The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, FAAN,  is insisting that  the General Aviation Terminal, GAT, is not part of the concession granted Messrs Bi Courtney, neither had FAAN admitted to that assertion at any time. It further said before the terminal, MMA2,  presently developed and occupied by BASL got burnt,… January 26, 2018 In "News"