It was a Valentine surprise over at the Love Pad as four new Love Guests made their grand entrance Thursday afternoon bringing the total number of Love Guests to 20! The new Love Guests: Uche, Jerry, Presh Talker and Sylvia have joined the competition making it even stiffer for the initial Love Guests and may alter certain relationships being formed in the Love Pad. 28-year-old Uche is an Economist who believes that love takes time. An important component for Uche in a relationship is that both parties need to agree for it to succeed. Model, Actor and Fashion designer, Jerry considers self-expression very key for an enduring relationship. Presh Talker, 26 years old and an MC/Entertainer holds close to heart her parents’ advice which is that; a man must be the full package whilst 23-year-old Sylvia believes that a man and woman should walk hand in hand to build a sustainable and strong relationship. Follow the excitement and get to know more about these new love guests by visiting  www.africamagic.tv/ultimateloveng You can also follow the social media updates on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook using the hashtag #UltimateLoveNg. Vanguard ...Says what happened between him and Ebube Nwagbo was ‘Limpopo’ Hip hop star, Kingsley Okonkwo popularly known as K-Cee keeps pulling strong, ever since the split of KC Presh; he has surpassed every expectations and risen into such a huge star on his own, hit after hit. In this interview,… May 11, 2013 In "Showtime People" PATIENCE and her husband had been married for five years when they moved into a posh bungalow on a better side of Lagos. As they both showed guests round during the house-warming ceremony, they looked the perfect couple and took in the ooh and aah gasps of admirers. The guests… July 6, 2019 In "News" The popular saying that “the spiritual controls the physical” and that is why most issues are always decided in the spiritual before their manifestation in the physical, was brought to the fore recently when AVMCA recipient, TRINO Studios, creators of the award-winning short films, Las Gidi Cops and The encounter,… August 30, 2018 In "The Arts"