Tottenham manager Jose Mourinho is hopeful that striker Harry Kane will return for the “last few games of the season” to help their push for a Champions League place. The England captain underwent surgery on a hamstring injury in January after suffering a ruptured tendon at Southampton on New Year’s Day and Spurs expected him to be back in training at some stage in April. But he appears to be making a quicker-than-expected recovery and Mourinho said: “I would say he is a little bit ahead. It gives me a hope that instead of (being fit for) one or two matches, three, four, five. “Just speculating a bit, the feelings are good. He is doing what he can do at this stage but always with a good feeling. Everything is going well. “When he was injured I said ‘forget him’, then I said ‘one or two games’. At this moment I have better hopes than that, hopefully that feeling is right and he can help us in the last few games of the season.” In another boost for the north London side, Mourinho admitted that he also hoped Son Heung-min would be back ahead of schedule. The South Korea international underwent surgery on a broken arm suffered in a 3-2 win against Aston Villa earlier this month, with the club saying at the time he would be out for a “number of weeks”. On Friday, the Spurs boss said: “I cannot imagine when, but there is a good possibility before the end of the season we have Sonny and Harry playing together.” Spurs are sixth in the Premier League table, four points behind fourth-placed Chelsea. VANGUARD Harry Kane hopes to build a "strong relationship" with new Tottenham head coach Jose Mourinho. The England captain's double in Tottenham's 4-2 win over Olympiakos on Tuesday helped book a Champions League last-16 place for Mourinho's new side. Kane says he is keen to work with the former Chelsea and… November 28, 2019 In "Sports" Tottenham manager Jose Mourinho said he would get "depressed" if he wallowed in the news that Harry Kane is to be missing for at least three months. The Spurs striker has undergone surgery on a torn hamstring that will see him miss the majority of the remainder of the season… January 10, 2020 In "News" Mourinho Jose Mourinho delivered Tottenham's first away win in the Premier League since January in his first game in charge with a 3-2 victory at West Ham that catapulted Spurs up to sixth. Son Heung-min, Lucas Moura and Harry Kane scored the goals as Mourinho made an instant impact after… November 23, 2019 In "News"