The Ohanaeze Ndigbo yesterday pledged their full support for the January 14, 2020   verdict of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, that sacked Emeka Ihedioha, as governor of Imo State and upheld Senator Hope Uzodinma, as the constitutionally elected governor of the state. The president of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Imo State chapter, Ezechi Chukwu, spoke in Owerri, alongside members of his executives. Chukwu said that after their analysis of the situation that Uzodinma’s restoration of his mandate was inline with the extant laws of the land. The president among other things said: “Imo state chapter of Ohanaeze has therefore taken a critical, dispassionate and objective analysis of the entire narrative. Senator Hope Uzodinma dully contested the election in accordance with the electoral act. “His post election recourse to the judiciary for redress is constitutional and equally in consonance with the extant laws of the land, his fundamental human rights are equally harmonious with the charters of the various international organizations. “Imo state chapter of Ohanaeze Ndigbo consequently upholds strongly at 360 degrees the election of Senator Hope Uzodinma, as pronounced by the highest court of the land on the January 14,2020.” Chukwu continued: “Our support for Governor Uzodinma is both morally and formally justifiable because the judiciary which upheld his mandate is the heartbeat of our democratic institution and the temporal last hope of the common man. “You may recall that Rt Hon Emeka Ihedioha was declared the winner of the March 2019 gubernatorial election in Imo. Imo state Ohanaeze Ndigbo supported him because it was an election which was validated by both the electoral umpire and judiciary per second.” Vanguard The Youth Wing of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has congratulated Sen. Hope Uzodinma on his Supreme Court victory on Tuesday, saying that it is a `victory well deserved’. It said that the Supreme Court had once again reassured the masses that the court remained the last hope of the common man.… January 15, 2020 In "News" The immediate past governor of Imo State, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, yesterday, said he does not agree with the Supreme Court judgment that made Senator Hope Uzodinma governor of the state. January 16, 2020 In "News" Senator Hope Uzodinma, has quashed canard making rounds that he was not supposed to be declared winner of March 9, 2019, Imo gubernatorial election, saying that the apex court used her eagle eyes to give him justice. January 15, 2020 In "News"