Storm Dennis roared across Britain (UK) on Sunday, lashing towns and cities with high winds and dumping so much rain that authorities urged residents to protect themselves from “life-threatening floods” in Wales and Scotland. The Met Office, Britain’s (UK’s) national weather service, issued over 250 flood warnings for England, Scotland and Wales. As the winds churned up enormous waves in the North Atlantic and the North Sea, the bodies of two men were pulled from the water Saturday in two separate searches off England’s eastern coast. Severe flood warnings were issued for the River Neath in South Wales and local media reported the River Taff had burst its banks in the Welsh town of Pontypool. In one 24-hour period, Tredegar in southeast Wales was hit by 105 mm (4.1 inches) of rain, while coastal Welsh village of Aberdaron was blasted by hurricane-force winds up to 91 mph (146 kph). Hundreds of flights were cancelled due to the high winds while train services were repeatedly disrupted by flooding. The travel chaos affected tens of thousands of passengers on a key weekend for British families as schools closed for the mid-winter break. On Saturday, around 75 British army personnel and 70 reservists helped out communities in the flood-hit Calder Valley region in West Yorkshire, constructing flood barriers and repairing damaged flood defences. [Associated Press] Vanguard News Nigeria. Communities in Britain were warned on Friday to be prepared for more frequent flooding as a result of climate change. February 16, 2018 In "News" Hurricane Matthew barreled toward Florida's east coast Thursday after leaving a trail of destruction in Haiti, Cuba, and the Dominican Republic. Here's what we know about this deadly and extremely dangerous hurricane: October 6, 2016 In "News" IN one of his numerous hit albums,  Expensive Shit, released in 1975, late Afro-Beat King, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, sang that water had no enemy. In a long melodious and soul-stirring lyrics, Fela justified why water has no enemy. Till the date, and 43 years after, the song has remained evergreen. August 11, 2018 In "Just Human"