Former Minister of State, Education, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, has  expressed appreciation to Governor Ifeanyi  Okowa of Delta State and President, Court of Appeal,  Justice Z. Bulkachuwa, for fulfilling the dreams of Deltans to have  a Court of Appeal Division in Asaba, Delta State. Gbagi, former Chairman of the Legal Aid Council of Nigeria and industrialist, said: “Making justice more accessible to the people remains a fundamental threshold upon which democracy, the rule of law and due process thrives. “Deltans are grateful to the President of the Court of Appeal for keeping to her promises. The crystallization of this promise has further affirmed the commitment of the judiciary towards efficient, swift and seamless administration of justice.” Noting the remarkable developmental strides of Governor Okowa, he said, “The Court of Appeal Division, Asaba, is a rare feat brought into existence by a combination of Okowa’s outstanding, sterling and visionary leadership qualities and  his people-oriented style of governance will stop at nothing to bring the dividends of democracy to the door steps of Deltans. “In an era where the search for justice has become increasingly indispensable, the President of the Court of Appeal has, by her mandate, made it possible for litigants in Delta State to pursue their cases without having to necessarily travel to neigbouring states to file or have their appeals heard. This, by no small measure, is a feat worthy of accolades and appreciation.” Vanguard By Emma Amaize Ex-Minister of State (Education), Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, has expressed appreciation to the Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa and the President, Court of Appeal, Justice Z.A. Bulkachuwa, for fulfilling the dreams of Deltans to have a Court of Appeal Division in Asaba, Delta State. Gbagi, a… February 3, 2020 In "News" Ex-Minister of Education, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, has commended the President of the Court of Appeal, Hon. Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, for her unwavering commitment to ensuring swift administration of justice in Nigeria. February 3, 2020 In "News" By Possible Ogheneseruo Politics is not a game for lily liver individuals but requires someone who is stable in all spheres of life. Politics is not for boys but real men who have been tested and approved in all ramifications. It is indeed not just for men with mere aspiration,… December 31, 2019 In "Viewpoint"