Fast-rising Nigerian singer and songwriter, Jeffrey Figbele, has once again got fans and music lovers chained to the rhythm, as he kicks off 2020 with a list of chart-topping smash hits. Amongst the latest release is his new single titled “Fall in Love” which has left fans basking in the euphoria of the new hit. The Nigerian-born Afropop singer who came into limelight following a series of collaborations and singles including “Fagbana”, “Club Controller”, “Telenova”, to name but a few, has been rated as one of Nigeria’s hottest upcoming artists as his music continues to gain widespread recognition within and outside Nigeria. On the new song “Fall in Love”, Jeffrey Figbele sings of heated romance, admiration, and eventually falling in love. It is believed that the song is destined to resonate with fans as various social media platforms have been lit up with the tract just few days after its release. Trump says he has received no election ‘help’ from another country https://t.co/12wNaD9UvE #vanguardnews pic.twitter.com/KLCiigHvuP — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) February 25, 2020  Jeffrey Figbele, also a philanthropist and an entrepreneur, is said to be the founder of JF Constructions LTD. He hails from Delta State and he attended the Royal Jordanian Air Academy. VANGUARD Nollywood actress turned singer Yemisi Fancy has been busy cooking up another chart busting song. March 11, 2018 In "Home Video People" Budding Nigerian artiste, Victor Oghowentiye Jeffrey, better known as Jay Bagz, has released another banging single titled Good Loving featuring Percy. The mid-tempo track, which was released a few days back, aims to put lovers in the mood for the Valentine celebrations, according to the artiste. February 12, 2016 In "News" By Ayo Onikoyi Nigerian Afropop singer, Danny Young, born  Ajibola Olumuyiwa Danladi, who made news recently for copyright lawsuit against former Mavin First Lady, Tiwa Savage has debunked the widely held notion that artistes are to be blamed for the upsurge in crap music in the Nigerian music space. While… February 8, 2020 In "Entertainment"