The Nigeria Medical Association (NMA ), Edo Chapter has urged the Federal Government to build an isolation centre at the point of entries into the country to check viral diseases. Dr. Valentine Omoifo, Chairman of the chapter made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria on Thursday in Benin. He said that an isolation centre could prevent coronavirus and other diseases from coming into the country. “The government should be proactive because we are lucky that the virus is not in Nigeria. This virus is a respiratory virus in China which has taken so many lives. “Coronavirus emanated from a livestock market in the Chinese city of Wuhan, where illegal sales of wildlife are done. “The good thing is that coronavirus has not gotten into Nigeria, but it`s spreading fast and has killed a lot of people in China. “Some countries are already taking measures so that coronavirus would not get to their country. Nigeria has made some efforts but we should do more. “Nigeria should have an isolation centre to study and check people to come into the country,” he said. vanguard Dr Clement Peter, Officer-in-Charge of World Health Organisation (WHO) in Nigeria, says the agency is supporting Federal Government’s effort at scaling up preparations in handling coronavirus. February 5, 2020 In "News" Lagos State biosecurity on alert   As part of the preparedness to prevent the importation of the Novel Coronavirus into Nigeria, all passengers onboard planes from Asian countries are to be screened before they are allowed into the country. The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, who stated… January 28, 2020 In "Health" Dr. Osagie Ehanire, Minister of Health on Tuesday inspected an Isolation Centre under construction at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital (UATH) Gwagwalada as part of the precautionary measures to prevent importation of coronavirus. Ehanire in a statement by the Head Media and Public Relations in the ministry, Mrs. Enefaa… February 4, 2020 In "Health"