A Federal High Court in Lagos, on Wednesday, ordered the remand of an Indian and two others for allegedly forging Standards Organisation of Nigeria, SON, receipts. Chucks Okeke, Omkar Shinde, Shittu Adedeji and a company, Everchem Paints Nigeria Limited, were arraigned before Justice Saliu Saidu on a three-count charge of forgery. Senior State Counsel, Olofindare Adeleke, alleged that Okeke and Shinde, an Indian, and Everchem Paints, forged 15 SON receipts on February 12, 2020, at Close 6, House 4, Satellite Town, Lagos, and at 110/114 Oshodi Apapa Expressway, Isolo, Lagos. He said the defendants committed the alleged offence “with intent to use the false documents as genuine.” The prosecution said it was with the “intention of causing the forged documents to be believed to have been issued by SON and use same as genuine.” ALSO READ: FCT Police smash Visa racketeering syndicate, arrest 3 suspects SON said Adedeji, on February 12, 2020, at 2, Morebise Egan, Igando, “did present false documents to SON officials, which you knew or have reason to know same to be false with intent to use the false documents as genuine.” The alleged offence is contrary to Section 465 and punishable under sections 467 and 516 of the Criminal Code Act CAP C38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. The defendants pleaded not guilty to the SON accusations. Defence counsel, E. Pobeni, for the first defendant, Tiwalade Aderoju, for the second and fourth defendants and I. Ituma, for the third defendant, told the court that they filed bail applications on their clients’ behalf. The judge ordered that the defendants be remanded at the Ikoyi Correctional Services. He adjourned until March 4 for the hearing of the bail applications. Vanguard LAGOS—JUSTICE Saliu  Saidu of a Federal High Court sitting in Lagos has remanded the Managing Director of Agastorm Limited, Nonso Udoye, in prison custody for allegedly cloning the Standards Organisation of Nigeria, SON, logo in a bid to perpetrate fraud. March 9, 2018 In "Crime Guard" A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, yesterday, ordered the remand at Ikoyi Prisons of a 56 years old Italian, Piero Allan Franchillo, over alleged N717 million fraud. The accused, a businessman, was arraigned by the Special Fraud Unit, SFU, of the Police, on a five-count charge bordering on advanced… February 4, 2015 In "News" A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, yesterday, remanded four men charged with producing adulterated engine oil by Standards Organisation of Nigeria, SON. February 7, 2019 In "News"