Three people were shot and wounded on Valentine’s Day at a restaurant just outside Atlanta that’s owned by singer and “Real Housewives of Atlanta” star Kandi Burruss. A man entered the Old Lady Gang restaurant on Friday night and targeted another man, East Point police Capt. Allyn Glover told news outlets. Police say two bystanders were also shot, and all three shooting victims suffered non-life-threatening injuries. The shooter wasn’t in custody, Glover said. The names and ages of the people injured weren’t immediately released. Serving Southern cuisine, Old Lady Gang is owned by Burruss and her husband, Todd Tucker, and named after Burruss’ mother and two aunts, according to the restaurant’s website. The first restaurant opened in Atlanta in 2016, and the East Point location — situated in a large shopping complex about 5 miles (8 kilometres) west of Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport — followed in 2018. There’s also an outpost at the Atlanta Hawks’ home, State Farm Arena. Burruss has been a cast member on the “Real Housewives of Atlanta” since its second season in 2009 and met Tucker, a former line producer, on the show. She’s appeared on other shows, including the 2019 iteration of “Big Brother: Celebrity Edition.” She became famous in the 1990s as a member of the R&B group Xscape and co-wrote TLC’s hit “No Scrubs.” [Associated Press] Vanguard News Nigeria. Sexy Yoruba actress, Adediwura ‘Blarkgold’ Adesegha has long been separated from her husband whom she bore a cute son. Recalling her most unforgettable Valentine experience, Adediwura revealed the most indelible in her mind was the one spent with the father of her only son, a couple of years back that… February 14, 2015 In "Entertainment" Certainly, the mood right now is all about St. Valentine’s Day, with lovers gearing up to get creative in the way they express love to their partners. The general idea is that the day is special and hardly can anything go wrong. How wrong? This compilation of St. Valentine’s experiences… February 12, 2017 In "Entertainment" “ Love is patient, love is kind; it does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud; It does not dishonour others, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. February 14, 2015 In "Special Report"