The Delta State government said since the recent outburst of the dreaded Lassa fever, it has recorded eight cases with one death while at least 120 persons are currently under surveillance for the ailment. The disclosure was made over the weekend by the state commissioner for health, Dr. Mordi Anonye while speaking as a guest during a Pidgin English public enlightenment programme, “How Una See Am” on the state-owned radio station. According to Dr. Mordi, the state government is doing a lot towards combating a further spread of the ailment with many persons in the state likely infected but are unaware about it and urged everyone noticing symptoms of the sickness to avail themselves for treatment. He noted further that the state government has established a special Lassa Fever Ward at the Federal Medical Center, FMC, Asaba for treatment of persons within and around the state whom are affected by the ailment. READ ALSO: Don’t abandon your homes, Useni charges survivals of Plateau attacks He said: “So far, we have recorded eight cases of Lassa Fever in the state with one death which was properly buried by the medical team. The seven persons are currently receiving and responding very well to treatment at the Irrua specialist hospital in Edo State. “For now, we have over 120 persons under surveillance for the ailment and we have stationed trained personnel for at the Special Lassa Fever Ward at the Federal Medical Center, Asaba.” Speaking on modalities being put in place by the state government in combating the spread of the ailment, the health commissioner said: “The government has also supplied Personal Protective Equipment, PPE to every hospital, health centers and local government council health officers called Disease Surveillance and Notification Officer. “Also, health workers are being trained on how to handle patients for infection and prevention control as regards high index of suspicion cases and also enlighten the people on how food should be preserved and protected to avoid being contaminated.” VANGUARD As 7 doctors, 5 nurses quarantined in Adamawa By Demola Akinyemi, Shina Abubakar, Gabriel Olawale & Ike Uchechukwu Four persons have been confirmed dead in Taraba State just as Kaduna State announced the death of 36-year-old man on Monday following the outbreak of Lassa fever in the country. According to… January 28, 2020 In "Health" ASABA—LASSA Fever has claimed three lives in Delta State, while 24 persons are under surveillance, the state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr. Mordi Ononye, has said. February 19, 2018 In "News" Commiserating with families of Nigerians who died during the current outbreak, the NMA said two Nigerian doctors have lost their lives in Kano. Lassa fever, an acute viral hemorrhagic fever, has continued to rage like bush fire, spreading into many communities across the country. According to the Nigerian Centre… February 2, 2020 In "Health"