Liverpool centre-back Virgil van Dijk lamented an “unacceptable” display after the team’s run of 44 games without defeat in the Premier League ended with a shock 3-0 loss away to strugglers Watford on Saturday. “First of all credit to Watford, they deserve it… It’s a tough one to take but that’s football,” van Dijk told Sky Sports after the stunning reverse at Vicarage Road. “We have to improve and we will.” Reigning European champions Liverpool, bidding for their first title of the Premier League era, were undone by Ismaila Sarr’s second-half double and a 72nd-minute goal from Troy Deeney. Defeat ended Liverpool’s hopes of winning their first English championship crown in 30 years with an unbeaten season as they lost in the league for the first time since January 2019. “We have to improve we have to do better,” said van Dijk, with Liverpool still a mammoth 22 points clear of second-placed Manchester City, the current English title-holders, despite this defeat. “It’s not acceptable we lose 3-0 here.” Saturday’s remarkable loss put paid to Liverpool’s hopes of equalling Arsenal’s celebrated ‘Invincibles’, who enjoyed an unbeaten campaign while winning the 2003/04 Premier League title as part of a sequence of 49 top-flight matches without defeat. But Dutch international van Dijk said: “Losing hurts, the records are only for the media. We want to win our next game (against Chelsea in the FA Cup on Tuesday), we want to strike back straight away.” Victory saw Watford climb out of the relegation zone, albeit on goal difference alone, and elated goalkeeper Ben Foster said: “It’s easy if you do it like that — we had a game plan and stuck to it really well.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. John Barnes believes that Virgil van Dijk should have won this year's Ballon d'Or ahead of the "greatest player in the world" Lionel Messi. The Barcelona superstar picked up the accolade for a record-breaking sixth time on December 2 , moving one ahead of Juventus forward Cristiano Ronaldo's tally. Messi… December 13, 2019 In "Sports" Liverpool centre-back Virgil van Dijk won the UEFA Men's Player of the Year award on Thursday, edging out Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo, while Lucy Bronze took the women's prize. August 29, 2019 In "News" Liverpool can make Premier League history at Watford on Saturday as the runaway leaders aim to move within three wins of clinching the title. While Jurgen Klopp's side are racing towards the title, the battle to qualify for the Champions League and the struggle to avoid relegation look set to… February 28, 2020 In "Sports"