Nigerian celebrities, Jim Iyke, Ini Edo, Uti Nwachukwu, Charles Okocha, Melvin Oduah, Victor AD, and Teddy A, have been unveiled as brand ambassadors for a popular alcoholic herbal drink brand, Adonko Bitters. The official unveiling which took place at The Oriental Hotel, Lekki, last week, was hosted by Ghanaian actress, Tv and Radio host, Selly Gelly. Representing Adonko Bitters Limited were Head of International Marketing Adonko Bitters – Vincent Opare, Mr. Ernest Gyamfi -Head of Sales, as well as Ernest Brobbey, Country Manager Nigeria, Adonko Bitters. an efficient move to maintain the link with key target audience and as a leader in the herbal beverages industry, it creates flawless visibility across the board. Speaking at the event, the Head of International Marketing, Vincent Opare said the choice of the ambassadors was informed by the bid to create a consistent connection between the customer and the brand. They have proven, over the years, to have a distinct relationship with different categories of the target audience. To this end, they will individually represent the brand at different levels and maintain excellent relationships with key audiences, Mr. Opare complained, adding it would further create more presence for the brand amongst key consumers in the market. Adonko Bitters has been a major player in the herbal beverages sector, with its unique blend of herbal mixtures and alcohol. The brand has thrived through the market on this unique identity and customers have created a relationship with the drink and its taste. Having created a huge impact in Ghana before launching in Nigeria, Adonko Bitters has consistently created an experience that puts utmost satisfaction on consumers’ faces. Vanguard News It is a new year package into the Nigerian beverage market as Ekulo Group, one of Nigeria’s biggest commodity marketing, distribution and manufacturing conglomerate partnered one of Ghana’s leading conglomerate, Angels Group of companies to introduce Adonko Bitters in Nigeria. Speaking on the brand, General Manager, Adonko Bitters Limited, Mr.… February 2, 2018 In "Business" Award-winning Nollywood actress, Ini Edo has evaluated her journey so far in the movie-making craft. May 23, 2019 In "Entertainment" A herbal based drink, is not just any ordinary alcoholic drink. Bitters are made from carefully selected tropical plant extracts which forms part of a secret recipe, and it is popular for its aphrodisiac qualities. December 22, 2014 In "Finance"