A 32-year-old surety, Ibrahim Olaniyi, who failed to produce a suspect, Abdulsalam Suleiman, in Area H Police Command, Ogudu, Lagos was, on Friday, brought before an Ogudu Magistrates’ Court. Olaniyi, a businessman whose address was not provided, is facing a two-count charge of conspiracy and perversion of justice. He, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against him. The Prosecutor, Insp. Donjour Perezi, told the court that the defendant committed the offences, with one other person still at large, on Dec. 7, 2019 at Ogudu Police Station, Lagos. Perezi said that the defendant stood as a surety for his friend, Suleiman, who was arrested for obtaining money under false pretences and stealing. “Suleiman was granted a N500,000 bail and released to the defendant, who promised to produce him anytime his presence was required by the police, till the case is finally disposed. “The defendant bailed Suleiman who is involved in a case of issuance of dud cheques to Davo Nani Microfinance Bank and he aided him to abscond,” he said. Perezi said that the defendant should show cause why the N500,000 bond executed by defendant should not be forfeited. According to him, the offences contravene Section 97(1), 132 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Section 97 (1) provides seven years imprisonment for the perversion of justice, while Section 411 stipulates two years for conspiracy. The Magistrate, Mrs Bukola Mogaji, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N100,000, with one surety in like sum. Mogaji, thereafter, adjourned the case till Feb. 25, for mention. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Mr Olumide Akpata, a Senior Partner at Templars and immediate past Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, Section on Business Law, SBL, together with some of his partners and colleagues at Templars, spent an entire evening in the delightful company of the leadership and members of NBA, Calabar branch,… February 6, 2020 In "Law & Human Rights" STAKEHOLDERS have advised legal professionals to abridge the gaps in the aviation sector, by taking more interest in the aviation industry. This was disclosed during the annual seminar of The Nigerian Bar Association, Section on Business Law NBA SBL (Aviation Committee), the stakeholders stated that there is need for lawyers… December 28, 2017 In "Law & Human Rights" AMID challenges facing the legal profession, young lawyers have been advised to be goal-oriented and endeavour to market themselves marketable. June 1, 2017 In "Law & Human Rights"