The family of deceased Wuhan whistleblower, Dr. Li Wenliang, who was investigated for “making false comments” when he posted about coronavirus, was awarded $117,400 (821,000 Chinese yuan) in compensation after he died from the very virus early the morning of Friday, February 7. The announcement that the death was ruled a workplace injury came Friday evening after the central government announced it would send a team to investigate his case earlier that day. ALSO READ:Alibaba says Singles’ Day sales hit 91.2 billion yuan in first hour(Opens in a new browser tab) Li became a cause celibre on the Chinese internet after he spoke out about the epidemic and the government’s handling of it. On December 30, he posted on Weixin, China’s leading chat app, to a group of medical classmates, about “7 confirmed cases of SARS.” The local police investigated him and forced him to sign a document on January 3 for “seriously disturbing social order.” Seven others were also labeled “rumormongers.” ALSO READ:Coronavirus: Bill Gates pledges $100 million to combat crisis(Opens in a new browser tab) Li later posted a photo of the document to his own Weibo account. He was not formally charged but warned that he would be legally punished if he continued engaging in such “illegal activities.” After returning to work, he contracted the coronavirus on January 8 and began receiving intensive care on January 12 and passed away on February 7. The news of the coronavirus virus victim’s workplace compensation began trending as number one on China’s microblogging platform, Sina Weibo, shortly after being reported. The compensation includes 785,020 yuan ($112,100) in one-time compensation and 36,834 yuan ($5,260) in funeral expenses. SOURCE Vanguard The Chinese doctor who tried to issue the first warnings about the deadly coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan only to be reprimanded by police died Thursday of the infection, officials said. “We’re deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Li Wenliang,” the World Health Organization said on Twitter. “We all need… February 6, 2020 In "Health" The World Health Organisation (WHO) said on Thursday the novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection has killed a Chinese physician, Dr. Li Wenliang. WHO, in a tweet posted on its official Twitter page expressed sadness at the doctor’s death. The United Nations agency said: “We are deeply saddened by the passing of… February 6, 2020 In "News" A doctor who became a hero in China after sounding the alarm early on about a new coronavirus outbreak has died of the disease, the Wuhan hospital where he was being treated, said on Friday. February 7, 2020 In "News"