The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said his administration will continue to prioritise basic education to groom a new generation of young people that would be productive, contribute actively in the development of the state and compete favourably with their colleagues across the world. The governor said this when he visited Ivbiyeneva Primary School in Ikpoba Okha Local Government Area of Edo State, to assess the impact of the Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation (Edo-BEST) programme. The governor’s visit coincided with the open day observed across public primary schools in Edo State. Governor Obaseki took time out to move from class to class and interacted with some of the pupils. He assured that he will continue to prioritise basic education, ensuring that children in Edo public schools get the best of education to make them realise their full potentials. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Basic Education and Chairman State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Dr Joan Osa Oviawe, in the company of teachers in the school and staffs of SUBEB, welcomed the governor and showed him around the school. One of the pupils at the school, Sherry Osemwingie, expressed appreciation to the governor and commended him for the Edo-BEST initiative. Osemwingie said the pupils are ready to make the state proud by taking their studies serious and contributing to the development of the state. She thanked the governor for making the school’s environment conducive for learning, noting that the provision of toys and other materials have made it more enjoyable to be at school. Vanguard Few weeks after Governor Godwin Obaseki awarded contracts for the renovation of primary schools, work has commenced in a number of the primary schools across Edo State. January 31, 2019 In "Education" The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki has approved the roll-out of Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation (Edo-BEST) programme in the three oil and gas producing local government areas of Edo State, namely Ikpoba-Okha, Ovia North-East and Orhionmwon. August 26, 2018 In "News" The Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has vowed to prosecute any contractor who delivers sub-standard work on the 230 public primary schools being refurbished by the state government through the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB). January 3, 2019 In "News"