The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) says it has not prohibited the acceptance of foreign currency cash deposits by Deposit Money Banks (DMBs). The CBN Director, Corporate Communications, Mr Issac Okorafor made the clarification while speaking to newsmen in Abuja on Sunday. A domiciliary account is a type of current account that allows you to fund it with foreign currencies such as dollars, pounds or euros and enables you to do foreign transactions on that account. The account could be used to transfer money to another country or receive foreign currency from another country. Okorafor explained that only electronic fund transfers into Domiciliary accounts could also be transferred from such accounts while cash deposits into such accounts could as well allow to be withdrawn in cash also. He said the clarification was necessary due to misrepresentation of facts and uncertainties surrounding the operations of domiciliary accounts in the country. Okorafor, therefore, urged stakeholders and other interested parties in banking sector to always endeavour to seek clarification on issues. According to him, rumours and speculative tendencies are detrimental to the financial system. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria.  The principal reason in the heedless pursuit of a cashless society is the belief that this will stop corruption. This is a Western notion which we have embraced fully – bringing lots of jobs to the West – the computers, the dispensing machines, the chips, pin, cards, etc. In the… August 31, 2015 In "Business" My proposed solution to our foreign exchange crisis, if followed will solve the following of our problems -It will restore and stabilise the naira and bring our economy out of recession -Will make the black market redundant -Will prevent corrupt official from siphoning public funds out of the country -Will… November 12, 2016 In "Viewpoint" The decision of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, to stop importers of certain items, 41 in number, from accessing the foreign exchange market was a declaration of war for the soul of the Naira between the apex bank and money launderers who have almost grounded the economy. August 9, 2015 In "News"