Dr. Osagie Ehanire, Minister of Health on Tuesday inspected an Isolation Centre under construction at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital (UATH) Gwagwalada as part of the precautionary measures to prevent importation of coronavirus. Ehanire in a statement by the Head Media and Public Relations in the ministry, Mrs. Enefaa Bob- Manuel, said the Federal Government had adopted the measure in the event that the disease is imported. “We must not allow it too enters our country through any of the entry points. “ As such, if any passenger should test positive at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Abuja, he or she will need to be isolated, thus, the need to have an isolation centre at UATH,” he said Ehanire said there was a need for a facility where diagnosis could be carried out by staff to be trained by Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Port Health Services Division of the Ministry. According to him, the training will equip health workers to build their capacity to treat Lassa fever so that patients will not need to travel as far as Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital, in Edo. The minister, therefore, solicited the support of UATH to enable the health sector to tackle the disease in case of its importation. In his response, the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of UATH, Prof. Bissallah Ekele pledged his support to provide the necessary facility for the centre. “I will not only make the yet to be completed Isolation Centre available but also to offer the newly completed Accident and Emergency department for temporary use until the completion of the Isolation centre,’’ he said vanguard The Federal Government says it has strengthened its preparedness and action plan in collaboration with relevant stakeholders to stop the importation of coronavirus into the country. Dr. Osagie Ehanire, the Minister of Health,  said this at Coronavirus Inter-ministerial Preparedness and Response Meeting with relevant key Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs)… January 31, 2020 In "News" Nigeria, with the help of World Health Organisation (WHO), acquired in-country capacity to test for coronavirus. February 2, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has assured Nigerians of its readiness to strengthening surveillance at five international airports in the country to prevent the spread of Coronavirus. The five international airports are in Enugu, Lagos, Rivers, Kano and the FCT. The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, who disclosed this at a… January 29, 2020 In "News"