A late-night fire outbreak, weekend, claimed the life of an aged woman identified as Kolade Omolayo in Osun state. The incident which occurred at Alapata street, Modakeke-Ife, completely razed a storey building, where the old woman resided. It was gathered that the woman was burnt to ashes and her remains have been packed in a sack for burial. However, it was also gathered that two aged men survived the fire incident as their effort to rescued the woman was futile. Confirming the incident, the Administrative Officer of Osun state fire service, Fatai Aremu, said the fire was reported to have started from the room of the deceased. He added that preliminary investigation revealed that the old woman was using a lantern and unknowingly the lamp was leaking. One of the foams in the room was soaked with kerosene which resulted in the fire. When she ignorantly stroke a match and dropped it on the floor, fire enveloped the entire building”. “The affected house, a storey building was burnt such that nothing was salvage”, he added. A resident in the area disclosed that if not for the prompt intervention of the Osun State Fire Service Station at Lagere, Ile-Ife, Obafemi Awolowo University Ile-Ife Fire Service Station and residents of the area who put out the inferno on time, the fire could have spread to other buildings. Aremu said the woman was burnt to ashes and her remains have been packed in a sack for burial. However, it was gathered that two aged men survived the fire incident as their effort to rescued the woman was futile. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Shina Abubakar - Osogbo Oke-Aree community in Iree, Osun State was in the panic mood as an 84-year-old woman, Janet Ebo was found slaughtered in her one-room apartment late hours on Sunday. The incident which occurred at Afunsho compound along Dam area, Oke-Aree, in Iree, Boripe Local Government Area… November 18, 2019 In "News" The people of Ozizza in Afikpo area of Ebonyi State are still in a state of shock following the “mysterious death” of a teacher and her four children during Christmas. The oldest child was aged six while the last was six months old. December 30, 2016 In "News" A pregnant woman and two of her children were confirmed dead and others injured when a building was gutted by fire in Angwan Biri, an outskirt of Minna, Niger State capital, yesterday. February 12, 2019 In "Crime Guard"