Food constitutes one of the most important factors for achieving and maintaining general well-being. The choices we make determine the quality of our physical, mental and emotional health. This is so because of the nourishing substances in food that are essential for the growth, development and maintenance of body functions. Hence, the popular saying, ‘we are what we consume.’ It is important for individuals to be conscious of the foods and beverages they consume. Specifically in the case of children, because they are not able to make informed decisions, it is the role of parents to ensure that their children are consuming foods and beverages that are safe for consumption and of high quality – this refers to foods and beverages that have a ‘Clean Recipe’. A ‘Clean Recipe’ essentially means foods or beverages made from natural ingredients with no artificial colours, no artificial sweeteners, no artificial flavors and no added preservatives. ALSO READ: Tolaram Group introduces Goodlife Magik fruit drink For some time now, the introduction of several unwholesome fruit drinks made for children have been generating conversations around the benefits these drinks offer. It is important for parents to know that when their kids consume these unwholesome fruit drinks, they not only miss out on all the benefits of taking fruit drinks made from premium natural ingredients, but they also leave their children’s health vulnerable to the long term implications from the ingredients within these products. Mrs. Funmi Ogunjobi, a nutritionist and mother of three, stressed that in today’s world where fruit drinks that do not meet the quality benchmark are being widely promoted despite consumer complaints, food products with natural ingredients will surely have an edge in the minds of parents who want the best for their children. “My children’s school bags are never complete without a pack of their favourite Capri-Sun because they know what they want. I know what is best for them, and that is why I always ensure to give them Capri-Sun daily,” she added. Capri-Sun is available in Orange and Apple variants, and comes in 200ml and 100ml fun pouches. It can be purchased in all departmental stores, neighbourhood shops, open markets and supermarkets located across Nigeria. Most children have a sweet tooth and are prone to asking for sugary beverages. However, guiding them towards more natural options is important for their overall health. Vanguard Preservatives and additives have been commonly used in producing packaged foods and beverages to increase shelf-life and reduce the loss of taste or ingredients in the product before consumption. Common preservatives used in food production include benzoates, nitrites and sulphites. February 9, 2020 In "News" Not too long ago, smoothies were foods we only read about or saw in movies; these days they have become essentials. As our tastebuds become more diversified and sophisticated and we are exposed to a wider range of foods, there is increasing pressure to make the best of every food.… March 27, 2015 In "Lip Stick" While most people would not consider food a “drug,” the truth is food can be as potent as many medications, eliciting even immediate and often very strong reactions within the body. Caff eine for example, is an extremely powerful, yet natural chemical found in coffee beans. March 26, 2013 In "Health"