A 16-year-old boy, Adekunle Ayomikun, who allegedly hid in the toilet of a bank overnight and stole N340,000 was yesterday, remanded at Special Correctional Centre for boys in Oregun, by a Lagos magistrate’s court sitting in Igbosere. The defendant, who is facing a  count charge of stealing preferred against him by the Police, was docked before Magistrate K. O. Doja-Ojo. However,  the teenager pleaded guilty to the charge against him. When Magistrate Doja-Ojo asked him, how he got into the bank, Ayomikun told her that he entered the bank around 4 pm during banking hours and locked himself in the toilet. He said: “After closing hours at night I went to the bulk room of the bank where I saw money, and I took N340,000 and kept it in my pocket. “I had a lighter with me, so when I was trying to come out of the bank, the lighter attracted the security guards at the bank who saw me, then I ran back into the toilet and locked myself up, again.” Ayomikun also added that when he eventually came out of the toilet, the security guards searched him and they recovered N340,000, from him. Earlier, the prosecutor, Inspector Peace Chukwudi, had told the court that the teenager committed the offence on February 19, 2020. She said the incident occurred at about 8:30 pm, at FCMB  branch, Ajah. Chukwudi said the defendant who stole N340,000, property of FCMB, was represented by one Mary Ikwuako. According to her, the offence is punishable under Section 28 of the criminal law of Lagos State 2015. Consequently, Magistrate Doja-Ojo remanded him at the Special Correctional Centre for boys in Oregun. The case was adjourned till April 15. Vanguard A 57- year- old man, Innocent Okeke, who allegedly broke into a bank premises and stole 11 toilet seats valued at N85, 000, on Friday appeared before an Ojo Magistrates’ Court, Lagos. August 26, 2016 In "News" An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court on Tuesday remanded a teenager in a correctional home over alleged indecent assault of a six-year-old girl in the toilet. April 24, 2018 In "Crime Alert" By Onozure Dania A 32-year-old football coach Leodina Ahamadah, was on Wednesday remanded in prison custody, by a Lagos Magistrate Court sitting in Igbosere, for allegedly raping a 9-year-old boy through the anus. Magistrate Mrs K.O Doja- Ojo, remanded the defendant in prison, pending the legal advice from the Director… November 27, 2019 In "News"