JOS — GUNMEN suspected to be herdsmen have attacked men of Sector Five of the Special Task Force, Operation Save Haven (OPSH), killing two soldiers and injuring one at X-Land of Barkin Ladi Local Government area of Plateau. An eye witness and resident of the area, who preferred anonymity, told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the incident occurred on Sunday. The eye witness said the soldiers who were angered by the incident gave the community two days to provide their attackers, and on Tuesday allegedly raided the area and burnt down scores of houses. The eye witness who said the houses burnt largely belonged to the Fulani settlers in the community, added that the army also made some arrests during the raid. “On Sunday, gunmen attacked soldiers of the sector five, killed two personnel and ran into the houses of Fulani settlers living here in X-Land. “Soldiers came and had a meeting with the Fulanis and told them to provide the culprits but they failed to, and yesterday (Tuesday) soldiers came and raided the community. “They burnt down many houses, over 100 and arrested some persons,” the eye witness said. Efforts to reach the Spokesperson of the task force, Maj. Ibrahim Shittu, on the matter was unsuccessful, as he replied the several calls put across with a text message. The text message reads: “I have seen your text, will get back to you on it, please”. But ASP Obah Ogaba, the Public Relations Officer of the Plateau Police Command, confirmed the incident. “It is true that gunmen ambushed security personnel of sector five, opened fire on them,  killed two soldiers and injured one. “The issue of burnt houses is not the key matter, but soldiers are attacked and two were killed and this is the major concern, here” he said. Vanguard Yola— Gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen have attacked and burnt down four towns in Girei Local Government Area of Adamawa State, killing the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Vunokilang in the area. January 25, 2016 In "News" When in 2010, the then President Umaru Yar’Adua directed the establishment of the Special Task Force, STF, to tackle the rising wave of insecurity in Plateau State, the people of the state heaved a sigh of relief. July 7, 2015 In "Metro" In January, about 676 Nigerians were cut down through herdsmen and farmers clashes, sectarian crises, communal clashes, Boko Haram insurgency, cult clashes, kidnapping, and ritual killings, among others. The deaths are 176 more than the 500 recorded in January 2017. March 11, 2018 In "Headlines"