No fewer than 300,000 beneficiaries of the N-Power scheme across the country have disassociated themselves from an alleged protest over the winding down of the Batch A and B streams. The group, under the aegis of N-Power Nationwide Beneficiary’s Forum, said the persons were “sponsored” by political detractors to dent the progress recorded under the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Farouq. In a statement signed by its Secretary-General, Ambassador Godswill Ibekwe, on Saturday, the N-Power beneficiaries disclosed that these “selfish” persons were never at any point its members, expressing gratitude to the president for the “opportunity to benefit immensely from the scheme”. Ambassador Ibekwe added that genuine beneficiaries have welcomed the launch of the Batch C as it would avail the same opportunity to other young Nigerians to learn a skill as well as earn stipends. While declaring maximum support for President Muhammadu Buhari and Hajiya Farouq, the group vowed that in due course its members and prospective Batch C beneficiaries would show their appreciation for the privilege. The group, however, pleaded that the scheme is expanded to accommodate more  Nigerian youths. Vanguard News By Best Agbese I recall when the president announced the creation of a new ministry known as the Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, there was a bit of scepticism in the polity. It was argued in some quarters that the president in creating the new Ministry was duplicating… August 26, 2020 In "News" By Abimbola Oluyede Nigerians are complex people to lead. Sometimes, authorities struggle to understand where the people are displeased, excited or unexcited by policies or programmes. What seems to gain currency in the Nigerian market in political and social engagements, however, is to either hate the leader or disparage whatever… June 28, 2020 In "Viewpoint" The N-Power Nationwide Beneficiaries Forum has lauded the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Farouq, for her transparent, accountable and propitious handling of the scheme. In a statement co-signed by President Dr Okwu Audu James and Secretary-General, Comrade Unde Saaember Emmanuel, on Monday, the forum vowed to expose "ungrateful… June 11, 2020 In "News"