By Ifeanyi OkolieOperatives of the Force Intelligence Response Team, IRT, have arrested two brothers; Akinola Akeem and Muyiwa Akeem and their native doctor, Odunta Moses, who were members of a notorious robbery gang that had been terrorizing Ijebu Mushin area of Ogun State for a long time. Two robbery suspects arrested by the operatives of the Force Intelligence Response Team, IRT, have narrated how they got information about money in a victim’s house. According to them, the victim, Pa Olutokunbo, unknowingly leaked such sensitive information, “because he talked carelessly”. “He was in a bar and was talking about the money he had in his house which my overheard. We then went and consulted a native doctor to prepare charms for us to make us succeed in the operation. “We asked Koba, to check if the man had the money in his house and he said yes, we then asked him to give us charms that would enable us to appear inside the man’s house. “He prepared it and gave us to wear it on our necks, but when got there the charm failed to work and when we called him on the phone, told as to be patient that someone would come out of the house. We saw someone coming out of the house and when he was going back, we followed him into the house. “We met four persons in the house but there was this old woman we met who started shouting and I took her into the room but she died while I was pulling her. “My brother Akeem asked the man for the money in his house and the man gave us N15,000 . We called Koba again and told him that the money was not in the house, but Koba asked us to keep searching because he was very sure that there was money in that house as his oracle never deceived him. “When my brother held the man and tried to kill him, the man begged and went into his room and brought out a bag containing money and gave it to us. “We saw charms on the money and we called Koba and informed him about the money and the charm and he asked us not to bring it to him immediately. We took the bag to him and he gave me N60,000 and gave my brother N50,000. “Before then, Koba had told my brother and I that he could prepare rituals for us that would make us rich and he had asked us to get the sum of N100,000 for it, but since we were so poor and we couldn’t raise the money, we decided to give him the N100,000 out of the money he gave us. “He prepared a soap for us which he asked us to bath with. But after all we did, we did not get anything. “We then realised that Koba fooled us. My brother and I were looking for a way of fighting him to get back our money before the police came and arrested us”. Unfortunately, during the operation, the robbers killed the victim’s 72-year-old wife, Christiana Olutokunbo, and robbed him of the sum of N550,000 and three mobile phones. Vanguard gathered that one of Pa Olutokunbo’s sons, who is based in the United Kingdom, was said to have written a petition to the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, asking for an investigation into the robbery of his father’s house and the killing of his mother. IGP, in-turn, directed his operatives at the IRT to investigate and track down the armed robbers. Vanguard gathered that the Ogun State Annex of the IRT, which was deployed to carry out the investigation arrested one of the users of the robbed mobiles who led the operatives to Akinola Akeem, from whom he got the phone. Akinola confessed during investigations that he had carried out some operations within Ijebu Mushin area of Ogun state including the robbery in Pa Olutokunbo’s house and the killing of his 72-year-old wife. He then led the IRT operatives to arrest his younger brother, Muyiwa who also took part in the operation and their native doctor, Oduntan Moses, who prepared charms for them before their operation. A source who took part in the investigation told Vanguard on the condition anonymity that “The members of the gang invaded the residence of Pa Olutokunbo, of Ikala Village in Ijebu Mushin area of Ogun state on the 15th March, 2020, and during the robbery, the sum of N550, 000, three mobile phones, were taken from the home. “While the robbery was on, Pa Olutkunbo’s wife age 72 years, Christiana Olutunkbo, started shouting for help, one of the robbers, named Akinola Mayowa, pulled the old woman into one of their rooms and strangled her to death. His brother, Akinola Akeem, who took part in the operation attempted to kill Pa Olutokunbo, but the old man pretended to have died from shock and the robbers left believing, he was dead. The case was reported at Itamogiri Police Station “On the 20th March, 2020, a son to the victim, Femi Olutukunbo, based in the United Kingdom sent a petition to the Inspector General of Police and the Ogun State annex was asked to investigate which succeeded in arresting the user of one of the robbed phones. “Akeem Akinola, who took part in the armed robbery and murder was arrested and he led us to arrest Mayowa, his brother and Oduntan Moses, a.k.a. Koba, their native doctor and they all confessed to taking part in the crime. “We also gathered that Oduntan Moses used to prepare charms to fortify members of the gang before going for any operation and all proceeds of the robbery were usually brought before him before it would be shared”. Read the native doctor’s (Koba) side of the story HERE. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Ifeanyi Okolie Operatives of the Force Intelligence Response Team, IRT, have arrested two brothers; Akinola Akeem and Muyiwa Akeem and their native doctor, Odunta Moses, who were members of a notorious robbery gang that had been terrorizing Ijebu Mushin area of Ogun State for a long time. The suspects… July 25, 2020 In "Crime Guard" The 30-year-old robbery suspect, James Peters, who was arrested by operatives of the Inspector General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team, IRT, last Monday, in Port-Harcourt, Rivers State, after three members of his gang were shot dead by police, has disclosed that his gang was on a mission to rob… December 2, 2016 In "News" Seven members of a notorious armed robbery gang, which includes a 25-year-old woman, that specialized in breaking into people’s homes at night, have been rounded up by operatives of the Inspector General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team, IRT, in Port-Harcourt, Rivers State. December 1, 2018 In "Crime Alert"