The National President of Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools, ASUSS, Comrade Samuel Omaji has urged the Federal Government to take proactive steps to safeguard the lives of teachers and students from COVID-19 before reopening schools in the country. Submit The National President who made the position of the union known on Saturday in Makurdi cautioned that the decision could expose teachers and students to the virus. He said, “for now we have not seen any proactive steps being taken by the government to curb the spread in schools. So if we reopen our schools I am afraid we might have mass spread of the virus in schools. “No doubt, teachers and students are eager to go back to school but the circumstances are not ideal, we cannot teach and learn under apprehension. Lets not turn our schools to incubation centres for the virus. “We also urge the government to put in place life insurance policy for teachers and also ensure that teachers’ salaries are placed on first line charge to serve as morale booster for teachers across the country. Vanguard Urges FG to put measures in place to safeguard teachers, students By Peter Duru - Makurdi The Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools, ASUSS, has urged the Federal Government to rethink its decision to reopen schools across the country stressing that the decision was hasty and it would not support… June 30, 2020 In "Education" Coronavirus did not spread to Nigeria until February this year and, when the rate of infection started mounting on a daily basis, the Federal Government, on March 19, 2020, in a circular from the Federal Ministry of Education, granted approval for the closure of all schools for a period of… July 5, 2020 In "Health" The U.S. Government says foreign students will not be allowed to remain in the country if their institutions move classes fully online. In a statement on Monday, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) said affected students would face “immigration consequences”, including deportation if they failed to comply. It, however,… July 8, 2020 In "Foreign"