Zimbabwe has reported 1,713 cases, up from about 50 two months ago, and President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Tuesday evening announced a night curfew, banned political, religious, and social gatherings, and reduced business operating hours in order to try to slow the spread of the virus. Mnangagwa said the “curtailing of freedoms we have always enjoyed and had grown accustomed to” was necessary, although some claim the banning of political gatherings is aimed at suppressing an anti-government protest planned for July 31. According to the president, all businesses are to operate from 8 am – 3 pm local time, with only essential service providers, exempted from the curfew. He added people will only be allowed to go out of their homes to buy food or get medical treatment. Inter-city travel and gatherings of more than 50 people – whether festive, religious, or political remain prohibited. The curfew and stringent lockdown will be enforced by the country’s security forces. In an attempt to curb the spread of COVID-19, President Mnangagwa initially introduced a 21-day lockdown on March 30, banning large gatherings and ordering the closure of most businesses, except food stores. The accelerating spread of COVID-19 in South Africa could be a precursor to what will happen in the rest of Africa, said World Health Organization executive director of emergencies, Dr. Mike Ryan. “I think this isn’t just a wake-up call for South Africa, We need to take what is happening in Africa very seriously,” said Ryan at the WHO weekly news conference in Geneva on Monday. “Many of those countries exist in the midst of fragility and conflict, many of them need external help support.” Africa News Vanguard Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Tuesday imposed a curfew and reinstated strict measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus following a spike in cases in recent weeks. The number of cases recorded in the southern African country, whose health system has been tottering from years of neglect, rose by nearly… July 22, 2020 In "Foreign" A Zimbabwe spokesman warned people against flocking to church Sunday in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, and even claimed that worshippers risked going to hell. "A quick survey around town (in the capital Harare) shows a lot of religious activity above 100 people," government spokesman Nick Mangwana said on… March 22, 2020 In "Foreign" Zimbabwe president Emmerson Mnangagwa attended the investiture of his Namibian counterpart Hage Geingob in Windhoek on Saturday, defying his own government’s ban on anyone leaving the country over coronavirus. Mnangagwa had insisted earlier in the week in Harare that he was equally bound to observe the travel ban. "I will… March 21, 2020 In "Foreign"