A suspected member of Eiye confraternity, Muiz Lawal, 21, popularly called Onishawa, who was arrested following a cult clash in the Denton area of  Lagos, denied killing anyone since he joined the group. He stated that he joined cultism in 2018, to spite his grandfather and “bring shame to members of my family”, whom he accused of neglecting him. According to him: “I lost my father when I was younger. My mother abandoned me for another man when I was three years old. I was left with my grandfather who never believed I would amount to anything good. “I was rusticated from United High School Ayengburen, for being the King of Boys. It was not a cult group. But we were always engaged in inter-school fights. “My family abandoned me because they said I was its black sheep. My grandfather is the chairman of slaughters at Odo-Eran, Denton. “I had to join cultism to spite him and bring shame to him and other members of my family for abandoning me. “I approached my grandfather some time ago to sponsor me abroad but he refused. I am a Disc Jockey and also the slaughter of cows. “My identity in the confraternity is Sparrow 21 colours. My position is the DOVE. We have three types of doves: Intelligence, Armoury and Rugged. “I am the Intelligence Dove and my duty is specifically on security. I am to inform the Capon about any untoward movements during an outing. “Rugged Dove handles the weapons and is always in the bush, while the armoury Dove personally guards the Capon. I was arrested by Oyabo boys at Ikorodu garage”. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Evelyn Usman It was a harvest of the arrest of over 400 criminal suspects that have been terrorising Lagos State. Among them were robbery suspects, suspected kidnappers, self-confessed fraudsters, traffic robbers and cultists who confessed to belonging to different confraternities. Cult activities In Lagos State, one of the security… July 4, 2020 In "Crime Guard" Primary, secondary school students among Turn to pick pockets, robbers We were forcefully initiated – arrested teen cultists Six out of ten children in Lagos are into cultism- Police boss By Evelyn Usman   Cultism, has become a major security challenge  that is of great  concern to both government, security… October 26, 2019 In "Crime Guard" He was visibly shaking and weeping his eyes out, calling the heavens to come to his aid. His head bent low to his knees, as drops of his tears mixed with perspiration reached the floor. August 17, 2019 In "Crime Guard"