Suspended acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, has been released after facing a presidential panel in Aso Rock. Magu’s lawyer, Wahab Shittu, confirmed the release of his client by the presidential panel investigating allegations against him. In a phone conversation with Vanguard, Shittu disclosed that Magu was released early in the day and is currently in his house in Abuja. His words: “Yes, I can confirm to you that Magu has been released on bail. He is currently in his house as we speak.” Pressed for details on Magu’s bail condition, Shittu said he will speak on that much later. The embattled former anti-graft chairman had been facing a presidential probe panel on corruption allegations bordering: Alleged discrepancies in the reconciliation records of the EFCC and the Federal Ministry of Finance on recovered funds. *Declaration of N539 billion as recovered funds, instead of N504 billion earlier claimed; *Insubordination to the Office of the AGF; *Alleged late action on the investigation of P&ID, leading to legal dispute; *Not respecting court order to unfreeze a N7 billion judgement in favour of a former executive director of a bank; *Not providing enough evidence for the extradition of Diezani Alison-Madueke; *Alleged delay in acting on two vessels seized by the Navy; *Alleged favouring of some investigators called Magu Boys; *Reporting some judges to their presiding officers without deferring to the AGF; *Alleged sale of seized assets to cronies, associates and friends; *Alleged issuance of investigative activities to some media prejudicial to some cases. Also, previously, former DSS D-G, Lawal Daura, had levelled some allegations against Magu in December 2016. The allegations bordered on: *Missing EFCC Files; *Return to EFCC under Lamorde; *Tenancy of My Official Residence; *Expensive air travels. *High profile/dual lifestyle; *Mutually Beneficial Relationship with Commodore Mohammed Umar (rtd); *Perceived reluctance to arraign Vice Marshall Adesola Amosun; *Alleged vendetta against Stanley Lawson; and *Work through police cronies in EFCC. Responding to the allegations in a letter addressed to the AGF, dated December 21, 2016,  Magu, had written: “I most respectfully refer to your letter referenced HAGF/EFCC/2016/Vol.1/23 dated 19th December, 2016, asking me to respond within 48 hours to the allegations contained in a report written by the Department of State Service, DSS, and which provided the basis for the non-consideration of my confirmation on December 15, 2016, by the Senate. “Having carefully considered all the issues, I hereby present a point-by-point response as follows: Missing EFCC files “It is true that my residence was searched on the orders of Mrs. Farida Waziri, shortly after she succeeded Mallam Nuhu Ribadu as Chairman of the EFCC and some documents relating to cases under investigation were found in my house. At the time of the raid, I was yet to formally hand over to my successor, Umar Sanda, as head of the Economic Governance Unit. “My schedule at the time warranted that I work round the clock and it was impossible to conclude all assignments without working at home. The documents found in my house were actually found in my office bag where I kept documents relating to investigations. “I was in the process of handing over and it would be wrong to suggest that I willfully kept the Commission’s files at home. Nevertheless, the incident was thoroughly investigated by the Police as I was placed on suspension without pay for 20 months. But in the end, I was reprimanded, recalled and promoted to Assistant Commissioner of Police. “It is important sir, to draw your attention to the fact that some of us that worked closely with Ribadu were victimized after his exit. And my ordeal was orchestrated as punishment for being the chief investigative officer for most of the high-profile cases involving politically exposed persons, some of whom became very influential in government at the time. Return to EFCC under Lamorde “I was Assistant Commissioner of Police in Charge of Operations at the Anambra State Police Command when I was recalled to the EFCC in 2012. “I did not lobby to return to the EFCC. It is preposterous for anyone to suggest that I was recalled to do a hatchet job for Lamorde, as alleged in the DSS Report. My job schedule as Deputy Director, Department of Internal Affairs, under Lamorde, was simply handling issues of professional responsibility in the commission. I had no inputs in core operations, duties of the commission. Tenancy of official residence “I live in the official residence of the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. This accommodation, contrary to the report of the DSS, is not my private home, neither was it rented and furnished for me by Commodore Umar Mohammed (rtd). “It was rented and furnished by the Ministry of the Federal Capital Territory through the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council, under the Safe House Scheme. “It is also false that the house was rented for N20million per annum and furnished for N43million. The entire cost for both two-year rent and the furnishing of the house is N39.628million. Details of the transaction are contained in the contract award letter and payment schedule which are attached to this letter. Expensive air travels “Honourable Minister, the claim that I have a penchant for expensive air travels in a private jet belonging to Commodore Mohammed is baseless “The two times I can recall travelling in Commodore Umar’s aircraft, were on a trip from Kano to Abuja, and Abuja to Maiduguri. In the first instance, I had gone to Kano on an official assignment with two of my directors, and Mohammed who was on his way back to Abuja offered us a ride in his jet. “The second occasion was when I was going to see my sick mother in Maiduguri. These, for me, were harmless gestures as we were both members of the presidential investigative committee on arms procurement. “At the time I had no knowledge that he was under investigation for any alleged crimes. Claims that I flew in Mohammed’s jet is false. “I have never flown in a private aircraft with any managing director of any bank, let alone one that was under investigation by my agency. I have no personal relationship whatsoever with him. High profile/dual lifestyle “The allegation that I live a flamboyant lifestyle is also surprising to me. While it is true that I did travel first class on Emirates Airline to Saudi Arabia for Umrah, this action to the best of my knowledge, did not contravene the directive of Mr. President on First Class travels as suggested by the DSS Report. “My trip to Saudi Arabia was a private journey to perform my religious obligation and it was not financed with public funds. More importantly, my decision to fly first class was not borne out of quest for luxury but compelled by necessity. “The trip was made during the last ten days of Ramadan and other classes of ticket were not available.  I had no other choice. That I flew first class in one instance is not enough evidence to suggest an extravagant lifestyle as alleged by the DSS Report. It is also not enough to suggest a dual personality. “Any one that has associated closely with me will attest to the fact that I am not known for ostentatious living. And my new office as acting chairman of the EFCC has not changed this. Mutually beneficial relationship with Commodore Mohammed Umar (Retd) “Sir, it is important to situate my relationship with Commodore Mohammed Umar (rtd), in proper perspective. Our paths crossed when we became members of the Presidential Committee on the investigation on arms procurement. “He was instrumental in getting some of the information that helped the committee make significant breakthroughs in its assignment.  Beyond that, the relationship between Umar and myself is one of professional acquaintance, devoid of issues of conflict of interest. “So, it comes to me with shock, the imputation by the DSS that we have a “mutually beneficial relationship”. This appears suggestive that Mohammed and I were involved in activities that could be said to be untoward. I certainly have no knowledge of such activities. “The claim that EFCC documents, including EFCC letters addressed to the Vice President and being investigation reports on the activities of Emmanuel Kachikwu and his brother Dumebi Kachikwu, were found in his home during a search by the DSS came to me as a surprise. “If that is correct, he should be made to disclose how he came by such documents. I never discussed my official duties with him let alone give him documents pertaining to investigations being conducted by the commission. “Interestingly, Mohammed was detained for several months by the DSS. In all those months, did he claim that I mandated him to commit any crime or that I was an accomplice to any crime? If there is any such claim, I will wholeheartedly like to be confronted with the allegation. “It is interesting to note that when Mohammed was eventually charged to court, the charges against him were money laundering and illegal possession of firearms, and nothing related to my purported “shady” relationship with him. Perceived reluctance to arraign Vice-Marshall Adesola Amosun “The DSS Report that the reason EFCC delayed the arraignment of a former Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshall Adesola Amosun, was because Mohammed never wanted Amosun to be prosecuted is astonishing. Anyone familiar with the EFCC under my watch knows that I perform my duties with the highest sense of responsibility. “The reason Amosun was not arraigned when the likes of Alex Badeh and Umar were arraigned was because he cooperated with the Commission in terms of assisting the process of recovering the proceeds of crime. “Indeed, among the suspects arrested over the arms procurement scandal, he was most cooperative. The Commission recovered N2.835billion cash from him, aside from property worth One Billion Five Hundred and Eighty One Million Naira (N1,581,000,000), Two Million One Hundred and Fifty Thousand United States Dollars ($2,150,000) and One Million Pounds Sterling (£1,000,000). “Since a key focus of the investigation was to recover as much proceeds of crime as possible, the Commission took its time to ensure it had recovered what was possible before arraigning the suspect in court. This had nothing to do with the wish of any individual. Moreover, the suspect has since been arraigned before a court of competent jurisdiction. Alleged vendetta against Stanley Lawson “The suggestion by the DSS Report that Stanley Lawson, a former Group Executive Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) was placed on a watch list, to settle scores with him is strange. “It may interest you to know that I do not know Stanley Lawson personally and could not be settling personal scores by framing somebody that I do not know. “Lawson’s encounter with the EFCC is in relation to the investigation into the mismanagement of $118 million public funds for electioneering campaign involving former Petroleum Resources Minister, Diezani Alison-Madueke. “It was discovered that he made payment of $25million into a Bank and also facilitated the purchase of Ogeyi Place Le Meridien Hotel in Port Harcourt for Mrs. Alison Madueke, for which he collected Ninety Four Million Five Hundred and Sixteen Thousand Naira (N94,516,000) as commission. Lawson was arrested and he made a refund of the N94.5million traced to him. He was never placed on any watch list. Work through Police cronies in EFCC “I do not understand what the report meant by working with cronies. If what was implied is that I have preferred officers that I work with and who go about their work in unethical manner, my response is that nothing of such exists in the EFCC. “Officers who work with me know that the easiest way to lose your job is to be found to be involved in unethical or corrupt activities. Indeed, when I assumed office as acting chairman, my first action was to return police officers with integrity issues back to the Nigeria Police Force. “If the DSS finds that there are police officers in the EFCC who are working closely with me and have properties that their incomes cannot support, the Service is at liberty to expose them. Vanguard Tayo Oyetibo, SAN, has said that with the cloud of uncertainty over suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, he still has constitutional rights as spelt out in the Nigerian constitution. Oyetibo explained that the law explicitly states that every person who is arrested… July 13, 2020 In "News" Presidency, last night, said that Nigerians would be told its position on the rejection of Ibrahim Magu as the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC by the Senate immediately President Muhammadu Buhari speaks on the matter. March 25, 2017 In "News" Filed by David Royal Acting Chairman of the Economic & Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, and the Department of State Services, DSS, were principal actors in a drama of confusion, arrest, denial and interrogation, yesterday, in Abuja, the nation’s capital. Initial reports indicated that Magu had been arrested by… July 7, 2020 In "News"