The newly-appointed Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, Mr. Lamido Yuguda, yesterday, assumed office, stating that investor protection would be at the centre of all its initiatives and programme. This is even as investors lost N162 billion at the equities market following the negative sentiment that has continued to trail activities in the market. Yuguda stated: “We want to assure investors that this market is for them and we are ready to do everything to ensure that we increase investor enlightenment through education, robust regulation and fair dealing. “For those that want to defraud investors, there would be no respite because we are ready to fight market manipulation to the last, anyone that flouts our rules will be made to face the consequences of their actions.” Yuguda, who resumed alongside the Executive Commissioners namely:  Mr. Reginald Karawusa, Mr. Ibrahim Boyi and Mr. Dayo Obisan, also  stated that the capital market has lots of potentials for growth and development of Nigeria post COVID-19 and beyond. Meanwhile, breakdown of trading results at the Nigerian Stock Exchange yesterday showed that  profit-taking in BUA Cement (-5.0%), Nestle Nigeria Plc (-6.5%) and Airtel Africa Plc (-3.5%) drove the market lower with the All Share Index (ASI) recording negative return of 1.3 percent. Specifically, the market capitalisation dropped to N12.533 trillion from N12.695 trillion, indicating 1.3 percent decline, while the ASI fell to 24,026.05 points from 24,336.12 points on Friday. Vanguard Capital market operators on Tuesday advised Mr Lamido Yuguda nominated as the Director-General, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), to prioritise investor protection and effective implementation of capital market master plan, if confirmed by the Senate. May 19, 2020 In "News" PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan has urged  the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to ensure efficiency in the discharge of its duties in order  to attract local and foreign investments to the country. June 10, 2020 In "News" SHAREHOLDERS in the nation’s capital market have placed the 10-year Capital Market Master Plan, CMMP, on the front burner as agenda for the new management at the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, for speedy implementation. May 25, 2020 In "Business"