World football governing body FIFA has released a statement concerning the initiation of criminal proceedings against the association’s president, Gianni Infantino by a special Swiss prosecutor. The statement reads: “FIFA acknowledges the decision of the Swiss special federal public prosecutor in opening an investigation regarding the meetings involving the FIFA president Gianni Infantino and the Swiss attorney general Michael Lauber. “FIFA, including the FIFA president, remains at the disposal of the Swiss authorities and will, as we have always done, co-operate fully with this investigation. “‘People remember well where FIFA was as an institution back in 2015, and how substantial judicial intervention was actually required to help restore the credibility of the organisation,’ said the FIFA president earlier today. “‘As president of FIFA, it has been my aim from day one, and it remains my aim, to assist the authorities with investigating past wrongdoings at FIFA. FIFA officials have met with prosecutors in other jurisdictions across the world for exactly these purposes. “People have been convicted and sentenced, thanks to FIFA’s co-operation, and especially in the United States of America, where our co-operation has resulted in over 40 criminal convictions. Therefore, I remain fully supportive of the judicial process, and FIFA remains willing to fully co-operate with the Swiss authorities for these purposes.’ “In addition, as far as FIFA is concerned, and as previously communicated on Thursday 25 June 2020 by the FIFA president: ‘To meet with the attorney general of Switzerland is perfectly legitimate and it’s perfectly legal. It’s no violation of anything. On the contrary, it is also part of the fiduciary duties of the president of FIFA.’ Vanguard A criminal case against FIFA president Gianni Infantino was opened on Thursday by a Swiss special prosecutor. The case is connected to a meeting Infantino had with the Swiss attorney general. The special prosecutor, Stefan Keller, closed an investigation into two complaints involving Infantino and Swiss attorney general Michael Lauber… July 31, 2020 In "Sports" A lawyer friend of FIFA chief Gianni Infantino met with Swiss public prosecutor Michael Lauber in 2015 to find out if Infantino, who was planning to run for the FIFA presidency, was the target of a corruption investigation, French daily Le Monde reported on Sunday. The newspaper said that the… March 8, 2020 In "Sports" Football's world governing body FIFA assured Tuesday that "no investigation" had been opened into president Gianni Infantino after sources said his role in the Confederation of African Football's presidential elections was being looked into. June 20, 2017 In "Sports"