The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has directed all tertiary institutions to begin the conduct of the first and second choice admissions from August 21. The board gave the directive in the 2020 admission guidelines released in Abuja by the board Spokesperson, Dr Benjamin Fabian. Dr Fabian, in the guidelines, warned institutions against duplication of forms, adding that they should desist from selling forms for admissions into some listed programmes. He urged institutions to advise candidates to apply for the programmes through its office, saying that all admission exercise must be conducted on the Central Admission Processing System. “All applications for admissions to First Degree, National Diploma, National Innovation Diploma and the Nigeria Certificate in Education into full-time, distance learning, part-time, outreach, sandwich, etc, must be processed only through JAMB. ”Institutions that desire to place advertisement can do so by advising candidates who applied for the current Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination to change to their institution as the first choice rather than requesting the candidates to purchase another application form or apply. ”This is to prevent the issue of double registration which is a violation of the JAMB mandate,” he said. Vanguard ABUJA-THE Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board,JAMB,has drawn guidelines to the heads of the nation's higher institutions on the 2020 admission. July 19, 2020 In "Education" I have followed with keen interest the controversy over the announcement of cut-off marks for Nigeria’s admission processes for the 2017/2018 session, with many commentators and the general public insisting that it is unwise, insensitive and retrogressive, to reduce the cut off mark for admissions into our tertiary institutions: 120… August 29, 2017 In "News" JOINT Admissions and Matriculation Board,JAMB Tuesday said it had barred 262 institutions of higher learning from participating in next year’s admission exercise for non-compliance with admission guidelines. June 26, 2012 In "News"