Austrian-born Nigerian midfielder, Osarenren Okugbowa, has joined German Regionalliga Nord champions, VfB Lubeck, in a deal which the German side have described as a progressive addition. In a statement on their official website, the German division three winners said Okugbowa joins then on a one-year contract from Austrian division two team, Floridsdorfer  AC, where he spent eighteen months, distinguishing himself in the heart of the midfield. Okungbowa is expected to begin training with his new teammates at VfB Lubeck, in mid-July. In fact,  Okugbowa, who was born and raised in Austria, is reputed to be a talented natural-born left-footer,  a rarity these days in modern football. It also signposts him as a player who can easily hold his own in the defensive midfield position, which he has perfected with seamless displays on the pitch. Born to  Nigerian parents, Osarenren Okugbowa had previously starred for Austrian giants, Rapid Vienna, for eight years, between  2010 and 2018. He also played for St. Polten, earning high marks for his disciplined defensive display. Reacting to his transfer to VfB Lubeck, Okugbowa said he was ready for the challenge in the  German league, having gone through the mill of professional football in Austria, with much success. Okugbowa said: “I had very good discussions with trainer Rolf Landert. These discussions made it easy for me to step away from home for the first time. I’m looking forward to the challenge in the far north.” Also speaking,  Sports Director of VfB Lubeck, Rocco Lesser, hailed the signing of Osarenren Okugbowa as a massive scoop by the  German regional champions. According to  Rocco,  “he can be used Multi-functionally as a six-man or central defender. He is very athletic and powerful in a duel. “He brings the necessary calm on the ball. He is more of a late bloomer due to injuries.” Vanguard VfB Stuttgart sacked head coach Hannes Wolf on Sunday after a 2-0 home defeat to Schalke 04 that left the club just three points above the Bundesliga relegation places. January 28, 2018 In "News" Bayern Munich made ten changes from their stunning Champions League semi-final, first leg win over Barcelona but still beat Freiburg 1-0 on Saturday to break the record for the number of points in a Bundesliga season. April 27, 2013 In "Sports" Thomas Mueller came off the bench to score the winner and Sven Ulreich saved a 95th-minute penalty as Bayern Munich won 1-0 at VfB Stuttgart on Saturday to go 11 points clear in the Bundesliga. December 16, 2017 In "News"