Brazilian midfielder Arthur Melo could face sanctions for failing to turn up at training with Barcelona, who concluded a deal to sell him to Juventus a month ago. The Catalan club say the player is under contract until the end of the season and have demanded he return, with the local press claiming he was in his native Brazil. “The player has not joined the squad as expected and we are considering a course of action,” a club statement said. Arthur has been sold to Juventus in a deal worth 72 million euros ($81 million) with Bosnian playmaker Miralem Pjanic moving in the opposite direction for a similar fee at season’s end. The player had been reluctant to leave the Camp Nou and even released a statement in April, insisting his “idea was clear” and that he wanted to play at Barcelona “for many years”. Barca coach Quique Setien said in a press conference at the time of the sale: “We expect the greatest commitment from him until the last day he is here.” Spanish sports daily Mundo Deportivo say the player maintains Setien had told him he had played his last game with the La Liga club. Arthur has not featured for Barca since the transfer was announced on June 29. Barcelona resumed training on Tuesday ahead of their Champions League last-16 second leg with Napoli next month. VANGUARD Barcelona midfielder Arthur Melo will join Juventus at the end of the current season, with Miralem Pjanic moving in the opposite direction, the two clubs announced on Monday. Barcelona said they had paid 60 million euros ($67.4m) plus a potential five million euros more in bonuses for Bosnian playmaker Pjanic… June 30, 2020 In "Sports" Neymar returning to Barcelona from Paris Saint-Germain is "unlikely", according to the LaLiga club's president Josep Maria Bartomeu. The Brazil forward left Camp Nou for the French capital in a world-record €222million deal back in 2017, but a return to Barcelona - where he won eight major trophies across four… July 7, 2020 In "Sports" Juventus are prepared to put four high-profile first-team players up for sale at the end of the season as they go about dealing with the financial connotations of the coronavirus pandemic. The club intends to introduce many cut-backs to help mitigate the inevitable impact, with Fabio Paratici, the club's chief… May 20, 2020 In "Sports"