Nigerian clergymen have taken to social media to pay their tributes to the late televangelist, Morris Cerullo, who died on Saturday July 11 in San Diego, California, United States at 88. Senior pastor and General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministries International, Apostle Johnson Suleman took to social media to pay his tribute to the late preacher. “He started ministering as a child but ministered to over 1billion people around the world..made such huge and undeniable impact..redefined evangelism with great passion..death is not a tragedy, an unfulfilled life is..goodnight DR MORRIS CERULLO..rest in peace sir..” Apostle Suleman wrote. Presiding Bishop of The Redeemed Evangelical Mission (TREM), Bishop Mike Okonkwo also paid his tribute via a twitter post. “My father – Dr. Morris Cerullo! “Like a good soldier of Christ, you fought a good fight, finished your course and kept the faith (2 Tim 4:7). “Our consolation is that you lived an impactful life, raising men across the globe for Jesus. “Adieu Papa Cerullo! We will miss you dearly” Senior Pastor of Word of Life Bible Church, and immediate past CAN and PFN president, Papa Ayo Oritsejafor has this to say about the late man of God: “My Father, mentor, and friend Dr Morris Cerrullo has ascended to heaven. My heart goes out to the entire Cerrullo family. Your legacy will forever be remembered. “Rest on God’s General. You will be greatly missed. RipMorrisCerullo” Vanguard News Nigeria. By Sam Eyoboka World-renowned televangelist, Morris Cerullo, was announced dead in the early hours of Saturday (July 11). Cerullo was known as a man with a deep passion for his faith with a burden for the lost world. Dr Morris Cerullo was raised in a Jewish Orthodox orphanage in New… July 11, 2020 In "News" AHEAD of the 2015 general elections scheduled for next month, eminent Pentecostal ministers from within and otherside the country are expected to gather in Lagos from February 4, to offer fervert prayers for peaceful election and cessation of insurgency in every part of the country. February 1, 2015 In "Worship" WORRIED by the spate of violent attacks on Christians in parts of Nigeria and Ken-ya, 81-year old American evangelist, Dr. Morris Cerullo has called on Christians across the glo-be to pray for a cessation of sectarian crises in the two African countries. July 29, 2012 In "Worship"