Kano State Agro-Pastoral Development Project has expressed readiness to collaborate with Dantata Foods and Allied Products Ltd. for improvement of selected agricultural value chains.  This is in line with the project’s objective to enhance linkages between smallholder farmers and the private sector, in order to improve production, storage, processing, off-taking and marketing of agricultural commodities.  The state Project Coordinator, Malam Ibrahim Garba Muhammad disclosed this during a meeting with the management of the company led by its chairman, Alhaji Tajudeen Aminu Dantata, on Tuesday, in Kano.  As part of the crop products value addition and market access component of the project, he said farmers in Kano would be provided with specialized extension services and would be linked with off-takers of grains and food processors.  “Therefore, private sector actors like Dantata Foods will play a key role in off-taking crops like rice, maize, sorghum, soybeans, cowpea, groundnut, etc, produced by farmers in the state”, the Project Coordinator stated.  Malam Ibrahim also pointed out that his project was ready to collaborate with the company in livestock development, specifically animal fattening and meat off-taking as well as commercial fodder development.  “The project will support investment in commercial large-scale fodder production in partnership with the private sector. It will identify 20 private sector investors interested in fodder production on plots of no less than 50 hectares each, assist them in the development of the pastures and provide them with harvesting and bailing equipment, in addition to marketing facilities”, he explained.  Malam Ibrahim thanked Dantata Foods for expressing interest to partner with KSADP and reaffirmed commitment to support initiatives towards making agriculture a win-win venture for farmers and entrepreneurs.  In his remarks earlier, the chairman of Dantata Foods and Allied Products, Alh. Tajudeen Dantata said his company has the potential to work with the project, as off-takers and producers of agricultural products.  “With your project, we can work together to solve the many problems facing the northern part of the country. We have enormous potentials but we are not using them to our advantage. With this kind of arrangement, we can be self-sustaining”, he affirmed.  Alh. Dantata said his company is interested in working with KSADP in the areas of grains off-take from farmers, commercial fodder production, livestock fattening, livestock off-take and halal meat certification as well empowerment of women and youth, through agriculture. By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has expressed the commitment of his administration to always provide necessary assistance and advisory services to farmers in order to increase productivity in ensuring food security in the state. Sanwo-Olu gave the assurances on Thursday while addressing beneficiaries at the Flag-Off… December 12, 2019 In "News" THE Federal government said it has set up 14 Staple Crop Processing Zones, SCPZs, to boost the nation’s economy with N1.4 trillion as it officially launched the pilot project at Allape SCPZ in Kogi State. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, who stated this in an… January 23, 2014 In "Business" The federal government’s drive for economic diversification may have thrown up new directions for private sector led growth where emphasis is now on value-added growth in the primary produce segment. August 2, 2018 In "Business"