The Presidency Friday night said that the call by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, for President Muhammadu Buhari to resign because he approved the audit and investigation of many agencies including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, was an indication that the party was gripped by an undemocratic pandemic. The Presidency in a statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu said opposition party in other clime plays a prominent role in strengthening the democratic process. It said it was not the case of Nigeria, alleging that the leading party in opposition is afflicted by a life-threatening sickness, the undemocratic pandemic as a result of which it was trading away the nation’s democratic values. The statement read:  “At a time when the whole world is unifying to confront a common enemy, Nigeria’s opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP has launched a whirlwind campaign promoting undemocratic values, the latest manifestation of which is the call for President Muhammadu Buhari’s resignation for allowing audits and investigation into several agencies of government, including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. “Based on the statement issued by the embattled chairman of the Party, Prince Uche Secondus, it is clear that they would have liked the President to not investigate but to cover things up: to not wake the sleeping lion as voiced by another of their leaders. “In a democracy, an opposition party is as critical to the system as the ruling party but in the case of Nigeria, the leading party in opposition is afflicted by a life-threatening sickness, the undemocratic pandemic as a result of which they are trading away the nation’s democratic values. “The PDP government which exited the stage five years ago through a democratic election by voters dissatisfied with corruption on an industrial scale, policy paralysis, obsolete and decaying essential infrastructure appears to have forgotten the reason for their stunning defeat and seem hell-bent on the fooling the nation, yet again for another ride to power. “President Buhari will not resign “He is determined to continue the crusade against corruption, both legacy and recently unearthed cases, that are found to be shabbily handled, and in some cases unattended to by past administrations. “The National Assembly, by virtue of its right to conduct its oversight function is currently carrying out own investigations. Additionally, the security and intelligence agencies are equally doing their part and must be given the time and space to conclude their work and present their reports. “The PDP cannot scare the government from probing the grave allegations made against MDAs and their chiefs because failure to do so will amount to a historic betrayal of public trust. “The PDP cannot subject Nigeria’s democracy to subterranean attacks and continue to pretend that they are well-meaning.” Vanguard Victor Ogunyinka The Senior Special Assistant, Media and Publicity to the Muhammadu Buhari, Garba Shehu, has advised the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to focus on what it called its "grim future" instead of attacking the All Progressive Congress (APC) administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. Garba Shehu also added that Nigerians… January 10, 2020 In "News" THE Presidency Tuesday night advised Nigerians to be wary of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and not to allow the party sabotage the democratic dispensation in the country. January 15, 2019 In "News" ABUJA- THE Presidency yesterday advised the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, not to be crying wolf and disparaging the electoral commission whenever it loses elections but to accept defeat with grace. November 18, 2019 In "News"