Jose Mourinho is not expecting swift transfer business but believes Tottenham are moving in the right direction and will end the window with a “better, balanced squad”. Spurs have endured a tumultuous campaign with long-term manager Mauricio Pochettino sacked in November. Former Chelsea boss Mourinho was appointed as head coach in Pochettino’s place and has inspired an upturn in form, but Tottenham are still facing a battle to qualify for the Europa League. Mourinho’s side are seventh heading into the final day of the Premier League season, a position that would only mean European competition if rivals Arsenal failed to win the FA Cup. But the Spurs coach is optimistic for the future, with the transfer window opening after this weekend’s matches and the club ready to act. “A new player on Monday would be amazing news, but I think it’s just the opening of the window,” Mourinho told reporters ahead of Sunday’s clash with Crystal Palace, where Dele Alli will be fit to feature. “I think we are going in the right direction, very calm, organised, thinking well, measured. I think we are going in the right direction. “We know what we can and cannot do, we know which directions we can and cannot go. We must not be reactive. We are very balanced, together, and have no doubts about what we need and about what is possible. “Step by step, we will end with a better, balanced squad. Of course, keeping the great players that we have is a very important thing.” Tottenham ensured one key man would remain at the club this week as Eric Dier signed a new contract. At the end of a season in which Christian Eriksen left in a cut-price transfer and uncertainty has loomed over the futures of Toby Alderweireld and Jan Vertonghen at various times, Mourinho suggested sorting Dier’s deal swiftly was vital. “It’s really important,” he said. “We look to the situation of last season where Spurs started the season with a few players going into the last years of their contract, with question marks on their future – like Christian. “It’s very important for us that Eric is not in this situation, that he’s committed to the club, he’s happy with the contract and his prospective future as a player here. We are very happy.” Vertonghen is still to agree to a contract of his own, signing an extension only until the end of the season, but Mourinho would not be drawn on the issue. “I think after eight years at the club, it’s for Jan to be the man to speak about his future, not me,” he said. Fotmob Vanguard Jose Mourinho has suggested that he won't be looking to make wholesale changes to the Tottenham squad in the January transfer window, instead insisting that the "best gift" are the players already at the club. The Portuguese was announced as the new Spurs boss on Wednesday morning, just 11 hours… November 21, 2019 In "Sports" Willian and Frank Lampard got the better of their former manager Jose Mourinho as Chelsea seemingly set their Premier League campaign back on track with a 2-0 win at Tottenham in an ill-tempered London derby. Chelsea's impressive early-season form under head coach Lampard had tailed away in the time Mourinho… December 22, 2019 In "Sports" Chelsea boss Frank Lampard has admitted to being extra motivated for victory as he prepares to come up against his old manager Jose Mourinho at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium on Sunday. Lampard won two Premier League titles as a Chelsea player when working under Mourinho, fulfilling his potential as one… December 20, 2019 In "Sports"