A panel set up by the Imo State Government to investigate the finances of local government councils, has allegedly indicted the immediate past government led by Hon.  Emeka Ihedioha and that of  his predecessor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha,for the misappropriation of N214 billion of local government funds. The Auditor General of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs had earlier in the year indicted the same Ihedioha’s administration of misappropriating N19.3 billion also from local government funds. On Thursday while submitting the report of the Investigating Panel, to Governor Hope Uzodinma, the Chairman, Chief Eze Duruiheoma (SAN) disclosed that a whopping N214 billion of local government funds was either misappropriated or missing between 2011 and 2019. According to Duruiheoma, whereas N171billion was out rightly misappropriated, a total of N73 billion was diverted. He said the administrations of governors Emeka Ihedioha and Rochas Okorocha treated the local government funds as personal property instead of using it to work for the people. The Panel Chairman said the reports had been prepared in a such a manner to guide the government in appreciating the enormity of looting perpetrated during the period. Receiving the report, Gov. Uzodinma regretted that leaders who were entrusted with public funds, chose to betray the trust of the masses. While commending the members of the Panel for a painstaking job, the governor assured them that his administration was resolute in stamping out corruption in the state and enthroning a culture of probity, transparency and accountability in the finances of the state. Vanguard OWERRI—The Panel of Investigation set up by Governor Emeka Ihedioha, to scrutinize the activities of Imo State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission, ISOPADEC, has revealed that over N6.044 billion of the commission’s fund is unaccounted for. January 10, 2020 In "News" Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives and Peoples Democratic Party, PDP governorship candidate in Imo State, Chief Emeka Ihedioha has restated that Governor Rochas Okorocha misappropriated N175 billion fund belonging to the local governments in the state and as such Imo people have rejected him for a second term in office. March 2, 2015 In "News" INTERNATIONAL society for civil liberties & the rule of law, Intersociety, has lamented what it called the political and financial mess of Imo State under the outgoing administration of Rochas Okorocha and advised Imo State governor-elect, Chief Emeka Ihedioha to set up a verification panel to clean up the mess. March 29, 2019 In "News"