Renowned educationist, Professor Peter Okebukola, has emerged winner of the prestigious AdasiScience True African Heroes Award 2020, as he got conferred with the ‘Pillar of E-Learning in Africa’ for his contributions to e-Learning in the continent. Professor Okebukola and former Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission, NUC, is the pioneer Director, Lagos State University Africa Centre of Excellence for Innovative and Transformative STEM Education, LASU-ACEITSE. Recall that Okebukola got the commendation of the international community for continuing virtual lectures at the LASU-ACEITSE centre during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown. Reacting to the award, the Vice-Chancellor of LASU, Professor Olanrewaju Fagbohun(SAN) described the Okebukola, as great pride to LASU. In a congratulatory message to the awardee, Fagbohun wrote: “Distinguished Professor, multiple award winner and the great pride of LASU, hearty congratulations, sir. “You are always looking for the good in others, and for the good of others. Little wonder, you are sought after globally. “On behalf of our great institution, Lagos State University, LASU, we heartily congratulate you on this very recent recognition as Pillar of E-Learning in Africa. We are deeply proud of you sir. “Distinguished Professor Okebukoka has continued to set the pace for his E-Learning efforts in the country. “The Covid-19 pandemic notwithstanding, LASU-ACEITSE, under the leadership of Distinguished Prof. Okebukola, has left no gap in learning by holding regular virtual lectures for his students, with some eminent personalities, such as former President of Nigeria, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, as guest lecturers.” Vanguard By Elizabeth Osayande Lagos State University, LASU, Ojo, made history as its Africa Centre of Excellence for Innovative and Transformative STEM Education, LASU-ACEITSE, got an international Scientific Advisory Board. The board, approved by the World Bank, comprised renowned academicians from the United States of America, USA, Canada, Ghana, Burundi, Sierra… July 14, 2020 In "Education" By Adesina Wahab and Elizabeth Uwandu Former Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission, NUC, Prof. Peter Okebukola, has said the country is not making the expected progress in the area of science and technology because a number of factors are hampering the teaching of the subjects in our schools. Okebukola, who… January 24, 2020 In "Education" VICE-Chancellor, Lagos State University, LASU, Ojo, Lagos, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, SAN, has said the African continent is grappling with development because the base of innovation is weak. January 16, 2020 In "Education"