Russia said, on Monday, it has detained five suspected members of the Islamic State terrorist organisation in the country’s southern Rostov region. The Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) said in a statement that it “uncovered and stopped the activities of a conspiratorial cell of supporters of Islamic State in the Rostov region, which consisted of six local residents, including citizens of one Central Asian country and Russia. “They had been preparing attacks on police officers and planned terrorist acts at medical and educational institutions’’. Five members of the group were detained, while their leader opened fire and blew up an improvised explosive device, killing himself, the statement said. There were no victims among the civilian population and law enforcement officials, it added. A home-made explosive device, automatic firearms and ammunition as well as drugs were seized during the operation, the FSB said. Law enforcement authorities filed charges against the detainees on the grounds of plotting terrorist attacks, illegal arms trafficking and encroachment on the life of law enforcement officers, according to the statement. Xinhua Vanguard News Nigeria The European Union reiterated claims on Wednesday that Russia has been oppressing the predominantly Muslim Tatar minority in Crimea as Russia announced the capture of suspected Islamist terrorists in the disputed region. March 27, 2019 In "News" Turkish authorities have detained 43 people suspected of belonging to Islamic State (ISIS) and of plotting attacks targeting celebrations of Turkey’s national day on Tuesday, police and state media said. The detentions came two days after U.S. President Donald Trump announced that Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi had been… October 29, 2019 In "Foreign" The Plateau State Police Command said on Friday in Jos that its men had successfully defused bombs planted at Congo Russia, a residential neighbourhood in the Jos North Local Government Area. July 6, 2012 In "News"