The Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, yesterday directed the cessation of all manner of attacks against the Yoruba and Yoruba nation. IPOB in a statement by the Head of Directorate of State, Mazi Chika Edoziem directed all its media personnel operating on different segments and platforms, be it on print, radio, visual and social media as well as the generality of IPOB family members, to strictly adhere to the instruction of its leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and halt all attacks against the Yoruba. IPOB’s statement read: “Consequent upon the directive by Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, worldwide during his live broadcast of Sunday, 19th of July 2020 to the effect that all attacks on Yoruba people should cease forthwith, the Directorate of State of the indigenous People of Biafra has deemed it instructive to reiterate and reaffirm the adherence by all to that directive from our leader. “To this effect, all IPOB media personnel operating on different segments and platforms be it on print, radio, visual and social media as well as the generality of IPOB family members must strictly obey that  directive as given by our leader. “lt is time to once again exhibit the discipline for which IPOB is known for. We must use the knowledge and information acquired from Radio Biafra during Onyendu’s teachings and those attained from individual research to present our view points on issues of public interest and debate.” Vanguard THE leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, yesterday, expressed shock over “the criminal silence of All Progressives Congress, APC, leaders in Yorubaland over the killing of Mrs. Funke Fasoranti Olakunrin, daughter of Afenifere leader, Chief Ruben Fasoranti, by suspected herdsmen.” July 15, 2019 In "News" The Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB Monday expressed its confidence in the apex Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Yoruba Elders Council and other outspoken leaders from the South West, for their firm and decisive stance against the alleged overwhelming tide of tyrannical oppression and genocide against the people of Biafra, by… September 25, 2017 In "News" The Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB yesterday expressed its confidence in the apex Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Yoruba Elders Council and other outspoken leaders from the South West, for their firm and decisive stance against the alleged overwhelming tide of tyrannical oppression and genocide against the people of Biafra, by… September 26, 2017 In "News"