The Kaduna State Government has directed its civil servants to report to work on Monday, July 20, 2020, after working remotely for over three months at home. The state civil servants have been home following the invoking of the Quarantine Act and Kaduna State Public Health Law, which quarantined all residents on March 26, 2020. However, a circular issued by the office of the Head of Service on Thursday, stated that different category of workers will work in different days of the week, from 9am to 3pm. According to the circular which was signed by Ibrahim Jere, Permanent Secretary(Public Service Officer), all Permanent Secretaries, Directors General, Chief Executives of Agencies and Parastatals, as well as Directors will work from Monday to Friday. The circular further stated that officers on Grade Level 14 and above will work for three days, including Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, while officers on Grade Level 7 to 13 will work on Tuesdays and Wednesdays only. The circular also noted that in an effort to contain the spread of Covid-19, visitors will be restricted from visiting offices, adding that the order will be ‘’enforced by assigning staff officers to identify their staff at the entrance gate from 8.30 am to 9.30 am.’’ Jere pointed out that Covid-19 prevention protocols would be strictly complied with by all Ministries, Departments and Agencies(MDAs) as well as all arms of government. The Covid-19 protocols include social distancing at work places, subjecting all workers to daily temperature checks at the entrance of the MDAs, observing respiratory hygiene and handwashing among others. Vanguard News Nigeria Kaduna State Governor , Nasir El-Rufai has extended the quarantine orders being enforced in the state for another 30 days. April 26, 2020 In "News" CHAIRMAN, Senate Committee on National Identity and Population, Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi, PDP, Kaduna North, yesterday formally declared to contest for the 2019 gubernatorial election in Kaduna State, just as he has vowed to return the state to its past glory. September 8, 2018 In "News" Former governor of Lagos State and leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has eulogised Governor Nasir El Rufai of Kaduna state for what he said were the great things he was doing for Kaduna state, and joked that El Rufai was no longer, “an accidental… November 11, 2015 In "News"