PORT HARCOURT: Operatives of the Rivers State Police Command, have arrested five women in Port Harcourt while trying to sell a two-weeks old baby for N1.1 million. The suspects were alleged to have been arrested at Rumuokuta Junction in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area while negotiating the purchase of the baby. A senior police officer who hinted newsmen of the development noted that investigation has commenced and that the suspects would be prosecuted upon conclusion. The principal suspect, Roseline Nwokocha, who had cash N1.1million in her bag, said she came with her sister, Chioma, from Umuahia, Abia State, for the illegal business. Nwokocha said: “I came from Umuahia. I was arrested at Rumuokuta junction. This my sister, Chi Chi called me that there was a two-week-old baby for sale and asked me to come if I had somebody that will buy the baby. “I decided to come and check the baby very. She told me the baby was N1m but I decided to come and see the baby first. I came with my sister. This is not the first time I came to buy a baby. “The time I came to buy the other one, my sister also came with me. I bought the first one at N1.1million. But this one, I also collected N1.1million from the person that wanted the child”. The suspect told police in her confessional statement that she gave the first baby she bought to a couple in Aba. Another of the suspects, who gave her name simply as Ify said the middle person, Chi Chi, had told her that someone wanted to sell her baby and they agreed for N950,000. Ify disclosed that Chi Chi later added N50,000 profit to sell the baby to Nwokocha, who would later hand over the baby to a couple in Aba. She said: “Somebody called me and said there was a baby available for sale. And I told her I would buy the baby for N950,000. I told Chi Chi who added N50,000 to sell the baby”. However, the spokesman of the command, DSP. Nnamdi Omoni, said the police were investigating the matter and would soon speak on it later. These are, indeed, times when odd happenings throw you off balance. And you begin to wonder, what could prompt a mother or a father to sell his or her child? Or how do parents who sell their children explain the motive? Or at what point do illiteracy, hunger, lack or… May 12, 2019 In "Just Human" Child Trafficking in the Eastern part of Nigeria is a lucrative trade. In Nigeria, human trafficking ranks the third most common crime after financial fraud and drug trafficking. At least 10 children are sold every day across the country, according to the UN. Globally, the traffickers earn $33 billion yearly. July 30, 2011 In "Just Human" Imo State Police Command has arrested three persons, including two middle aged women and a 41-year old driver, Jacob Ademuyiwa, for alleged child trafficking. April 13, 2013 In "News"