Nollywood actress, Maryam Charles, has taken to social media to slam BBNaija housemate, Nengi, for trying to use Mercy Eke’s nudity style to win the present show. The actress disclosed that the way Nengi goes around almost half-naked is a thing that really displeases her. She added that trying hard to play the Mercy card because she won the last edition of the show is not a smart move, saying that the former winner is not kind of person to use as a role model. “For Christ sake, is she telling us that it’s only when you show your nudity that you will win the show? Is it only when you twerk that fans will appreciate your ‘talents?’ “…I don’t blame Nengi, she’s probably not smart enough to know that Mercy is not the kind of person to use as your role model. There are strong, influential and well-respected women out there that can lead you in the right path,” she said. The actress also used the opportunity to appeal to young girls, telling them not to look towards people like Mercy and Nengi as role models. See her Instagram post below:   I've been watching this season of BBNaija and I won't lie, I've been disgusted by what Nengi has been doing. Am I the only one wondering whether this girl has clothes at all? Because it seems anytime the camera is on her, she is either half naked or wearing something showing off her bum. For Christ sake, is she telling us that it's only when you show your nudity that you will win the show? Is it only when you twerk that fans will appreciate your 'talents?' It makes no sense!  I dont blame her though. She learnt it from another ex housemate Mercy. Remember how Mercy too used bottom power to win the show when there were more talented people there? This rubbish has to stop. I don't blame Nengi, she's probably not smart enough to know that Mercy is not the kind of person to use as your role model. There are strong, influential and well respected women out there that can lead you in the right path. To the young girls out there as well, nudity is not a sure way to success. Sure, perverts will literally eat you up with their eyes, but that's it. You will not gain anything. Instead, it's your virtue that will reduce. Do not look at ladies like Nengi and Mercy as your role models,  like I said earlier, there are better women out there. #bbnaija #bigbrothernaija #bbnaijalockdown #mercy #nengi #nengibbnaija A post shared by  Maryam Charles (@maryamcharles) on Jul 26, 2020 at 8:41am PDT  Recall that someone also accused the same housemate of coming into the house with a plan to follow the same strategy used by last season’s winner, Mercy Eke. VANGUARD By Ayo Onikoyi It is still early days to stick a neck out on how the ship of this Season 5 Big Brother Naija will sail. But trust Nigerians with their little patience as they have already started staking their lots on some of the Housemates. As of Friday, July… July 25, 2020 In "Entertainment" When we talk of the movie industry in Nigeria, Nollywood automatically comes to mind. But there have been questions as to what constitutes Nollywood. November 30, 2019 In "Entertainment" Mercy Eke, known widely as ‘Mercy Lambo, Queen of Highlights’ has made history as the first woman to be crowned the winner of the Big Brother Naija in its 4th  edition. This couldn’t have been possible without the Imo State-born Housemate storming the House with some sort of a plan. October 12, 2019 In "Entertainment"