For the first time, the person considered as the most prominent figure in the Buhari administration, Malam Mamman Daura, has broken his silence, saying he had never imposed his decision on the President. He spoke in a brief interview with the BBC Hausa service monitored in Kaduna on Tuesday. When asked about his relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari, he said the President is his uncle. ” My father was their mother’s firstborn. Buhari is the last born,” he said. When reminded that people had said he and Buhari grew up together and had always been together, he said ” yes…..it’s true.”. On whether he had  been meeting Buhari and advising him on issues, he answered: “Yes, I do visit him to greet him. I do give him advice, but if he asked…I advise him. But I don’t go there on my own and insist I must do this or that.No.You don’t do that to the government.” Commenting on the clamor for power shift, he said its high time the country unite and go for the most competent. “This turn by turn, it was done once, it was done twice, it was done trice… It is better for this country to be one…it should be for the most competent and not for someone who comes from somewhere,” he said. Vanguard SaharaReporters have reported that a newly-leaked telephone conversations between two members of President Muhammadu Buhari's cabal suggested that he should resign his office because of his ill-health, with cabal frontliner Abba Kyari, his Chief of Staff, becoming Vice President. September 14, 2017 In "News" Wife of Nigeria's President, Aisha Buhari, has come out to explain and confirm what transpired in a viral video, which she admitted happened in the Aso Rock Villa and her security officers couldn't do anything about it because it was "Mamman Daura's daughter, Fatima that videoed me." While fielding questions… October 15, 2019 In "News" In the affairs of man, there is always the cynic, the traducer, the proponent, the indolent, the diligent, so on it goes. For those who understand this simple principle of life, they become enigmas and a matter of several conjectures by those given to mischief or plain foolishness. November 17, 2019 In "Viewpoint"