Mali’s embattled President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita announced the dissolution of the constitutional court on Saturday in an attempt to calm major civil unrest in the vulnerable African country. Mali’s constitutional court has been at the centre of controversy for months since it overturned provisional results for a parliamentary poll, triggering protests in several cities. These demonstrations have recently intensified into deadly unrest, with thousands rallying in the capital to demand Keita’s resignation over a long-running jihadist conflict, economic woes, and perceived government corruption. “I have decided to repeal the licences of the remaining members of the constitutional court,” the president said in an evening television address. “This de facto dissolution of the court will enable us, from next week, to ask relevant authorities to nominate new members so that the reformed court can quickly help us find solutions to the disputes arising from the legislative elections,” he added. Some of the nine members of the court have already resigned, and one is dead. Keita said the remaining members’ dismissal would help Mali begin to implement the recommendations of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), which has called for the government to review the results and hold new partial elections. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Protesters in Mali's capital Bamako blocked two of the city's main bridges and hurled stones at the parliament Friday, AFP journalists said, during a protest against President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita. Thousands gathered in a central square to demand the president resign over the country's long-running jihadist conflict and economic woes. They… July 11, 2020 In "Foreign" The three main opposition candidates in Mali’s presidential election are alleging ballot box-stuffing and counting fraud in the first round of voting said to have been won by incumbent Ibrahim Boubacar Keita. August 6, 2018 In "News" Mali's protest leaders stepped up pressure on President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita on Sunday, calling for more demonstrations and his resignation hours after meeting with him for talks. The protest movement in Mali has brought thousands to the streets, channelling deep frustration over jihadist violence and inter-ethnic attacks that have forced… July 6, 2020 In "Foreign"