Thiago Silva had mixed feelings after Paris Saint-Germain won the Coupe de France, saying he was sad for the injured Kylian Mbappe. Mbappe was substituted in the first half of PSG’s 1-0 victory over Saint-Etienne in the final on Friday after a tackle by Loic Perrin, who was sent off. The PSG star suffered a suspected ankle injury as Neymar’s 14th-minute goal secured the trophy for Thomas Tuchel’s men. PSG captain Silva was glad to secure the silverware but is hoping Mbappe is not sidelined for too long. “It is difficult when things like that happen. We are sad for Kylian but also happy to win the trophy,” the defender said. “It’s true that today was a very difficult game. We didn’t play well. We struggled a lot as the coach explained well. “We are feeling both sad for Kylian and happy for the trophy. We have some time and I hope that Kylian will be fit soon. “He’s a pivotal player for us.” Silva said PSG face Lyon in the Coupe de la Ligue final next week before taking on Atalanta in the Champions League quarter-finals on August 12. Fotmob Vanguard Paris Saint-Germain forward Kylian Mbappe hobbled off in the first half of Friday's French Cup final with an ankle injury after a dreadful tackle by Saint-Etienne captain Loic Perrin. Mbappe received lengthy treatment but was eventually substituted after his right ankle was caught by a clumsy Perrin challenge that resulted… July 24, 2020 In "Sports" Neymar scored the winning goal as Paris Saint-Germain defeated 10-man Saint-Etienne 1-0 in the French Cup final on Friday, the first competitive fixture in the country since March 11 following the coronavirus pandemic. However, coach Thomas Tuchel faces an anxious wait over the fitness of Kylian Mbappe ahead of next… July 25, 2020 In "Sports" Kylian Mbappe and Neymar were both on target as Paris Saint-Germain ramped up their preparations for the 2019-20 run-in with a 4-0 friendly victory over Celtic. PSG's Ligue 1 season was curtailed by the coronavirus pandemic - as was Celtic's similarly successful league campaign in Scotland - but the French… July 22, 2020 In "Sports"