Will Smith isn’t known for foul language but had no problem dropping the f-bomb on 50 Cent after the rapper took shots at his wife, Jada Pinkett Smith. The “Power” producer, 45, posted a private message between himself and the Oscar-nominated actor, 51, Saturday morning where he is seen asking Will about the latest edition of Facebook Watch series “Red Table Talk.” The episode found Will and Jada discussing her “entanglement” with August Alsina while the couple were privately separated. After asking Will if he’s ok, the “Bad Boy” actor responded that he’s fine and appreciates the concern.   Damn it’s like that, what i do ? #bransoncognac #lecheminduroi A post shared by  50 Cent (@50cent) on Jul 10, 2020 at 10:33pm PDT  “But why she tell you that s–t on a show for everybody to see?” 50 went on to ask, to which Will responded, “We broke up, so she did her and I did me.” Changing the tone of the exchange, the Queens rapper added, “Then she said only SHE can give permission for somebody to blow her back out,” to which Will responded with a simple, “f–k you 50.” Alsina asserted in an interview with Angela Yee that Will gave Jada “permission” to date him, which Jada denied, saying she knows the R&B singer didn’t want to be perceived as a “home wrecker.” During the episode, Will was able to joke about supporting his wife through her “transgressions,” leading Jada to say, “I actually don’t look at it as a transgression at all. Through that particular journey, I learned so much about myself and was really able to confront a lot of emotional immaturities, emotional insecurity and I was really able to do some really deep healing.” PageSix Vanguard With their marriage under social-media scrutiny, Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith reaffirmed their commitment to each other as Pinkett Smith admitted to having a relationship with musician August Alsina when she and Smith were separated. In a one-on-one conversation Friday on Pinkett Smith’s series “Red Table Talk,” she said she was… July 11, 2020 In "Entertainment" Jada Pinkett Smith has admitted she did have an affair with singer August Alsina while married to Will Smith. The 48-year-old sat down with her husband for an intimate conversation on her Facebook show, Red Table Talk, and revealed she developed a friendship with August around four years ago. She… July 11, 2020 In "Entertainment" Hollywood Director Spike Lee and actress Jada Pinkett Smith, said they would boycott next month's Oscar Academy Awards ceremony because black actors were shut out of nominations. January 19, 2016 In "Entertainment"