Gunmen on Thursday attacked a convoy of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS) and freed six inmates at the premises of the state High Court in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau. ASC Martha Banda, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the Plateau Command of NCS, confirmed the incident to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Jos. Banda listed the names of the prisoners who escaped as Umar Adamu, Yusuf Adamu, Musa Abdulkasim, Mohammed Ibrahim, Bashir Mohammed and Shua’ibu Ado According to her, the incident occurred at about 10 a.m., adding that the inmates were at the court for trials. She narrated that immediately the officials of the service arrived at the court premises with the inmates, armed men started shooting sporadically, aiding the escape of the six prisoners “Today at about 10 a.m. at the High Court, Barkin Ladi, some gunmen attacked the court with sporadic gunshots and aided the escape of six inmates out of ten brought from Jos Prison for trials. “Findings revealed that the inmates who were brought in a prison van and escorted by five of our armed personnel arrived at the court premises at about 9: 55 a.m. “The gate was immediately opened and as soon as they entered the court premises the gate was locked. “In the process of unhandcuffing them, the attackers opened fire and six of the prisoners whose handcuffs were already removed, escaped, while the remaining four with the handcuffs were apprehended by troops of Special Military Task Force, Operation Safe Haven (OPSH),” the PRO said. She said those arrested were handed over to the police, adding that a combined team of security personnel had commenced the search for the escapees She, however, said that no casualty was recorded during the incident. Vanguard News By Therese Nanlong - Jos Armed men on Thursday morning ambushed some officials of the Nigerian Correctional Service within the vicinity of Plateau State High Court in Barkin Ladi local government area of the State and freed some suspects taken for arraignment in the court. The suspects who were said… July 23, 2020 In "Crime Alert" No fewer than 30 inmates serving their various jail terms at the Jos Correctional Center are currently participating in the ongoing November/December Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE), an official has said. ASC Martha Banda, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the Plateau Command of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS), disclosed… November 28, 2019 In "Education" IN what appeared like a Rambo movie, gunmen stormed the premises of Owerri High Court in Imo State yesterday, shooting at prison officials and rescuing their mentor, Chibueze Henry, a man simply identified as Vampire who is a notorious serial killer and armed robbery suspect. January 28, 2017 In "News"