BUA Foundation, the philanthropic arm of BUA Group, has donated six ambulances and N100 million to Rivers and Kwara states, each. Food supplies were also part of the donation, which was BUA’s part in the states’ COVID-19 pandemic intervention programmes. While presenting the ambulances to Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State governor in Port Harcourt and his Kwara State counterpart, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq in Ilorin, representatives of BUA Foundation said the donations were intended to assist both governments in fighting the pandemic to a standstill, as the number of cases continue to rise in the country. Both states commended BUA Group for its support in their fight against COVID-19. Governor Wike praised the sustained support from BUA Foundation to the Rivers State government, noting that BUA had made a donation of N100 million as well as 4,000 cartons of pasta for which the state remained grateful. Also, Governor AbdulRahman thanked Abdul Samad Rabiu, the Executive Chairman of BUA Group, for the ambulances and the N100 million. He said the donations will further strengthen the state’s fight against the pandemic, adding that they will be used judiciously. A statement by BUA noted that since the start of the pandemic, BUA had committed about $20 million dollars to various efforts to tackle the virus within Nigeria. Vanguard BUA Foundation has donated five ambulances and 20 Hilux vehicles to assist Kano State government in stemming the spread of the virus in the state as part of its COVID-19 health infrastructure and response grant for the state. BUA Foundation is the philanthropic arm of Africa’s leading foods and infrastructure… May 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Lagos State COVID-19 response has received five ambulances and N200 million from BUA Foundation, the philanthropic arm of BUA Group, one of Africa’s leading foods and infrastructure conglomerate. June 4, 2020 In "News" To strengthen national response to COVID-19 in Nigeria, Industrialist and Founder of BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, has announced a donation of N1billion cash through the BUA Foundation and has also placed an order for additional donation of equipment and medical supplies, including testing kits and medical protective gear to… March 27, 2020 In "News"