Hope for a 16-year-old girl, Olugola Praise, of actualising her dreams of furthering her studies to the university level may be dashed, except something urgent is done to save the situation. This is because she is going through excruciating pains for a tumour in the nose, which is spreading to her eyes. Determined to actualise her dream of studying Theater Arts at the University of Lagos, Praise put in her best in the last Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board Examination, JAMB, with a score of 236. However, her efforts might be truncated by her present situation. When Vanguard sought to speak with her on Wednesday, this reporter was told that her speech had been impeded due to complication from the tumour. Her agonising moaning was heard at the background. Efforts to get her treated Her mother, Mrs Olusola, who spoke with Vanguard, narrated her eldest child’s ordeal. She said: “ In January 2020, we complained that she was bleeding in the nose. By April, we discovered she had a boil. We started treating her for malaria. We took her to General Hospital, Ikorodu, from where we were referred to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, LASUTH, and from there again, we were referred to the General Hospital Lagos Island, where we were taken to the Ear, Nose and Throat, ENT, unit. “But we were not attended to because the unit was not working. We were again referred to the ENT unit at LUTH and on May 12, 2020, a CT scan was carried on her. Next day, we were told she would have to undergo surgery, following the result of the test. “On May 25, 2020, a surgery was carried on her nose, and she was discharged on May 29, 2020. “She was doing well until the third week when she started bleeding from the nose. At a point, she became so weak and I contacted doctors at LUTH. But by then doctors were on strike. They advised I took her to a private hospital close to where we live but she was rejected. I rushed her to Ikorodu General Hospital, she was rejected too. “At LASUTH, I was advised to take her to a particular private hospital from where a specialist from LASUTH came to attend to her. She was discharged but another bleeding started last Saturday. “Her right eye was swollen, we thought it was because of the surgery. “The specimen they removed from the surgery was taken to the lab where the result revealed she had turmoil which has spread to the left eye and that she needs to undergo another surgery. At the moment, she is going through excruciating pains, her mother, a hat maker said in tears.” She, therefore, called on well-meaning Nigerians to assist her family raise N1.7 million needed for a second surgery before the tumour spreads beyond correction. She said: “ Nigerians should please help my daughter out of this pain.” Her account details: Olugola Bukola Rebecca; GTB 0218962625, and she can be reached on 0802533532. Vanguard My child is almost a year old. Anytime I have to hawk soft drinks, I keep him with a man selling fried yam by the roadside. I can’t carry him and be running in the traffic January 20, 2019 In "Special Report" FOUR-YEAR-OLD Aaishat Dikko is going blind. Retinoblastoma - a devastating eye disorder that is threatening to take her eyesight, has already claimed her left eye. When she was born into the Shamsudin Dikko family, Aaishat weighed a healthy 3.2 kilogrammes. May 10, 2010 In "Health" Ugo Fidel Onwuraokoye is the founder of Tamar Rescue Foundation, a non-governmental organisation that reaches out to young girls teaching them how to avoid sexual abuse and rape. April 30, 2011 In "Just Human"