The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has extended the phase two lockdown by one week from the initial one month extension. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation and chairman of the PTF-COVID-19, Boss Mustpha, revealed this at the daily briefing on COVID-19 on Monday in Abuja. “The PTF has continued to evaluate the developments as well as the level of compliance nationwide.  “(It) has regrettably come to the inevitable conclusion that majority of Nigerians irrespective of status, creed and level of education continue to live in denial on the virulent nature of the virus and consistently breach the  guidelines and non-pharmaceutical measures put in place. “We informed you two weeks ago that the process of submitting the 6th Interim Report and recommendations for next steps had commenced. “The PTF has reached advanced stages of the process. It has also considered that due to the upcoming Sallah (Eid El-Kabir) festivities which coincides with the expiration of the current phase, it would be prudent to extend by one week, from 29th July, 2020 till Thursday 6th August, 2020. “It has accordingly secured permission to retain the existing guidelines till that date.” Mustapha further called on Muslims and all Nigerians to observe all measures put in place to reduce the curve of the pandemic. “We note with delight, the increasing number of States that have shelved activities during the Eid-el-kabir and we still urge others yet to do so, to follow suit. “WHO has also issued Safe Eid practices in the context of COVID-19 and I urge us all to access and disseminate. The National coordinator will also elaborate on this. “Similarly, the PTF appreciates the Nigeria Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), who has always been a great champion in the fight against the pandemic, for advising Muslims to avoid massive gatherings at Eid grounds and pray at Area Mosques under prescribed protocols.” Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA --- PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Monday received briefing from the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The Chairman of PTF on COVID-19 and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Mr. Boss Mustapha, led the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire,… June 29, 2020 In "News" THE Federal Government yesterday ordered “restrictive opening” of worship centres but with a caveat that relevant containment protocols against COVID-19 be respected, in line with the agreement reached between the Presidential Task Force, PTF on COVID-19 and state governments. June 2, 2020 In "News" Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), and the Chairman, Presidential Task Force (PTF), on COVID-19, Mr Boss Mustapha, has assured Nigerians on Tuesday said the decision to extend the lockdown was not punitive. May 20, 2020 In "News"