Ivory Coast Prime Minister, Amadou Gon Coulibaly, who was the ruling party’s candidate for October’s presidential election, died on Wednesday aged 61, the presidency said. “I am deeply saddened to announce that Prime Minister Amadou Gon Coulibaly, the head of government, left us early this afternoon after taking part in a cabinet meeting,” Patrick Achi, secretary general to the Ivory Coast presidency, said on public television. Coulibaly returned to the West African country last week after a two-month absence in France to receive medical treatment for recurring heart problems. He was announced as the candidate for President Alassane Ouattara’s party in early March, after Ouattara ended months of speculation and said he would not seek a controversial third term. “I pay tribute to my younger brother, my son Amadou Gon Coulibaly, who was my closest collaborator for 30 years,” Ouattara said in a statement. “I salute the memory of a statesman, a man of great loyalty, dedication and love for his homeland,” he added. Following the closure of Ivory Coast’s borders due to the coronavirus pandemic, Coulibaly — who had a heart transplant in 2012 — travelled to France on May 2 for medical care. He received a stent about a week after arriving in France following an exam of his coronary arteries. “I am back to take my place by the side of the president, to continue the task of developing and building our country, Ivory Coast,” Coulibaly said on arrival at the airport in the country’s main city Abidjan last Thursday. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Ivorian Prime minister, Amadou Gon Coulibaly, returned home on Thursday after a two-month absence for medical treatment in France. The presidential candidate of the ruling Rally of Republicans party addressed the media upon his arrival at the airport saying he was ready to resume his duties alongside President Alassane Ouattara.… July 3, 2020 In "News" Outgoing Ivorian president Alassane Ouattara has named a successor as his tenure winds down with polls expected in October 2020. The president has named current Prime Minister Amadou Gon Coulibaly as the ruling party’s candidate to take over as he exits. Coulibaly is a close ally of Ouattara and has… March 14, 2020 In "Politics" Ivory Coast Prime Minister Amadou Gon Coulibaly laid the foundation stone of a brand new football stadium in Yamoussoukro on Friday as work accelerated in preparation for the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. October 19, 2018 In "News"