Suspended acting  chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu says he will respond to every allegation against him now “point to point.” In a statement issued by Wahab Shittu, his lawyer, the suspended EFCC chief denied misappropriating funds recovered for the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). He said the allegations against him border on matters that were never brought before the panel set up by President Muhammadu Buhari to probe the activities of the EFCC under him. He also said the allegations were prejudicial to the proceedings of the panel. “Take notice that, our client can no longer fold his hands in the face of these sustained malicious attacks to prejudge him in the public space. Our client will henceforth, point by point reply to all false allegations orchestrated against him in the public space on a daily basis as well as present his comprehensive defense for the world to see,” he said through his lawyer. “This is without prejudice to the willingness of our client to defend himself in the ongoing proceedings at the Presidential Investigation Panel. “The truth of the matter is that well over N329 billion recovered by EFCC under our client’s watch was remitted directly into NNPC dedicated accounts via Remita under a special arrangement endorsed by NNPC, EFCC and the affected NNPC’s indebted marketers. “By virtue of the said special arrangement, NNPC had requested formally the EFCC to recover the said amount from the affected NNPC’s marketers who were expected to pay such funds directly to NNPC while NNPC, in turn, confirmed receipt of such payments to EFCC. “Therefore, EFCC never took custody of any of the recovered funds and so, the question of misappropriation of such funds by EFCC or our client could not have arisen as falsely published,” he said. He also described the allegations of false asset declaration against him as “gross misrepresentation and blatant falsehood.” “Our client has never been confronted with any such allegations purportedly arising from the panel’s proceedings. The story attributed to the panel which has become a recurring decimal, is a dangerous attempt to discredit the work of the honourable panel,” he said. Responding to the allegation that he was shielding some persons in the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) from prosecution, Magu said it is ‘falsehood from the pit of hell.’ “Investigations were painstakingly conducted by EFCC under our client’s watch. The matter has since been referred for prosecution. Charges have been prepared ahead of arraignment in court. “Our client has no interest in shielding anyone found culpable from the long arms of the law. At any rate, time does not run against the state in criminal prosecutions. It is tendentiously wicked to suggest that our client excluded major approving authorities from the criminal process. “As a matter of fact, one Peter Hena, head of the FIRS coordinator support services group, who allegedly authorized the illegal payment is one of those listed to be arraigned. The case was properly investigated and professionally vetted with our client deploying no influence whatsoever on the outcome,” he said. Magu was arrested on July 6 and subsequently suspended as EFCC acting chairman following allegations of corruption brought against him by the office of the attorney-general of the federation (AGF). Vanguard The suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, has said he would not fold his arm in the face of the allegation against him, stating that he would respond to every single one of them. Speaking through his lawyer, Wahab Shittu, Magu said the… July 26, 2020 In "News" Suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic & Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, was yesterday granted bail by the Justice Ayo Salami-led Presidential panel investigating allegations levelled against him by the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN. July 16, 2020 In "News" Soni Daniel - Abuja The suspended acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, has denied all the allegations levelled against him before the Presidential Panel probing him over alleged sundry claims. Magu said this in a letter by his lawyer, Wahab Shittu, to the panel… July 17, 2020 In "News"