BENIN CITY – AHEAD of the formal kick off of the Edo State governorship election scheduled for September 19, the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday said it’s campaigns would be issues based as it inaugurated the State APC Media Council. Vice Chairman of the APC Media Council, Hon Patrick Obahiagbon at a brief ceremony at the campaign office of the party’s governorship,candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu in Benin inaugurated ten sub-committees. The deputy director general of the campaign organization and former Edo State deputy governor, Mr. Lucky Imasuen said that with the inauguration, the battle line has been drawn. Imasuen added: “The campaign will focus on good governance. Ize-Iyamu will run a transparent government with integrity. With the inauguration of this media campaign team, the battle line has now been drawn.” The sub-committees which comprised of notable print, electronic and online journalists are to be chaired by a former Chief Press Secretary to Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki, John Mayaki. The roll call included the immediate past Edo State Commissioner of Communication and Orientation, Mr. Paul Ohonbamu, Edo State APC Publicity Secretary, Mr. Chris Azebanwan, a former Chairman of the Edo State Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Comrade Godwin Erhahon, Mr. Tony Ikpasaja, Sule Aledeh, Joseph Omorotionwan, Thomas Imonokhe and a host of others. Vanguard THE emergence of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu as consensus candidate of a faction of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State loyal to the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has increased the stakes in the governorship race in the state. May 31, 2020 In "News" FORMER Member, House of Representatives and Vice Chairman, National Campaign Council, All Progressives Congress, APC, for the September 19 Governorship Elections in Edo State, Hon Patrick Obahiagbon, aka Igodomigodo, has described the political  union of All Progressives Congress, APC, Candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and former National Chairman of the party, Comrade… July 11, 2020 In "News" AHEAD of the November 12, 2016 swearing-in of the governor-elect of Edo State, Mr Godwin Obaseki, of the All Progressives Congress, APC, the state government has set up a 19-member transition committee headed by the Secretary to Edo State Government, Professor Julius Ihonvbere. November 1, 2016 In "News"