Bayern Munich coach, Hansi Flick, says he is determined to keep defender David Alaba and midfielder Thiago Alcantara, who has been linked to a move to Liverpool. “I will do everything I can to ensure that we can keep two such quality players,” said Flick after the Bundesliga champions completed the double with a 4-2 win over Bayer Leverkusen in the German Cup final on Saturday. “I’m trying to keep the squad together as it is at the moment.” Both Alaba, who scored the opening goal in Berlin, and Alcantara, a second-half replacement in the cup final, only have a year left on their contracts. Alcantara, 29, is of particular concern as the Spanish media has linked him to a move to Liverpool, but Bayern chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge says no offer has yet been received. “We have negotiated with him seriously and granted all his wishes, but it looks like he wants to do something new at the end of his career,” Rummenigge told daily Bild. However, Flick hopes to persuade Alcantara, who joined Bayern in 2013: “I’ll do my best to make sure he stays. “You could seen that he identifies 100 per cent with the club,” Flick added after the Spaniard enthusiastically took part in the cup final celebrations. Flick also thinks Robert Lewandowski, the man-of-the-match after scoring twice in Berlin to leave him on 51 goals this season, is a Ballon d’Or candidate. “When you see that he has scored 34 times in the league, it’s quite enough to make you think that a player from the Bundesliga could be world footballer of the year,” Flick said as Lewandowski was crowned German league top-scorer last weekend for the fifth time. Bayern, who are chasing the treble, are among the favourites for the Champions League knock-out stages to be held in Lisbon next month. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Bayern Munich CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge has confirmed that midfielder Thiago Alcantara has expressed a desire to leave the club this summer. The 29-year-old, who has just one year remaining on his contract, has been heavily linked with Liverpool, with some reports even suggesting that a deal could be close to… July 4, 2020 In "Sports" Bayern Munich's contract negotiations with a quartet of key players will not be affected by the coronavirus pandemic, insists CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge. Manuel Neuer, Thomas Muller, David Alaba, and Thiago Alcantara are all out of contract in 2021 and are mulling over the offer of fresh terms from the Bundesliga… April 4, 2020 In "Sports" Many of Europe's biggest clubs can go into Christmas with something to cheer. Bayern Munich, who have been sack-happy in recent seasons, seem to be content with their temporary manager, at least for the present. Kylian Mbappe proved to be a not-so-secret Santa in France, Atletico Madrid were touched by… December 23, 2019 In "News"