The Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission, NCPC, has said it is still unsafe for Nigerians to embark on a pilgrimage to the Holy Land and other religious sites, largely due to the COVID-19. The Executive Secretary of the Commission, Rev. Yakubu Pam, made this known while responding to questions from Vanguard in Abuja, Weekend. He said the international airways are not yet open for travel. However, the commission is hoping that the issue of the coronavirus would abate by December. He said: “Right now, it is not safe, largely because of COVID-19. However, we are hoping that by December this year, the international skies would be open for travel. “We are putting all measures together for a successful pilgrimage once the issue of COVID-19 is settled. But in the event that it didn’t happen this year, we would prepare for the first quarter of next year.” On the issue of racist attacks on Nigerians because of their skin colour, Rev. Pam said: “It has to do with the image we portray there. Sometimes, they look down on us because of the kind of behaviour our people exhibit in the holy land. “If we improve our image and behave like global citizens, we would enjoy a good reputation and treatment. We also have to do lots of public relations to improve our image. We will start with the Israeli Ambassador to Nigeria.” Vanguard Executive Secretary, Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC), Mr Tor Uja, said the transportation of over 1000 pilgrims who could not make the pilgrimage to Israel in 2016 would commence on Monday. He made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Friday. February 17, 2017 In "News" THE Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission,NCPC, has been commended for the effective and efficient way it has managed the Nigeria Christian Pilgrim-age exercise to the Holy Land. June 8, 2011 In "Midweek Sermon" Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christain Pilgrims Commission, NCPC, Mr. Kennedy Opara has said that it was extremely necessary for every practicing Christian to visit Isreal on pilgrimage. March 11, 2016 In "News"