THE Management of Egbin Power Plant, has given insight into how it has so far maintain steady power supply to its customers and safety of its employees since the beginning of COVID-19 pandemic, saying uninterrupted power supply and staff safety is its priority, A statement by the Chief Executive Officer, CEO, of the plant, Paul Harriman said the Company’s seamless business continuity plan and its proven safety machinery had continued to drive its high performance levels and employee well-being at Egbin, one of Africa’s largest power generation companies. Harriman said the deployment of the company’s safety protocol in response to the COVID-19 pandemic had paved the way for zero disruption at the power plant which provides a quarter of power generated in Nigeria. According to him, in addition to virtual operations, employees who had to run the plant in person remained in full compliance with all safety precautions, helping Egbin maintain an optimal generation capacity in the first half of the year. He said “From the basic precautionary measures and protocols advised by the NCDC and WHO to Egbin’s in-house protocol, we have the situation under control at the plant. Prior to the pandemic, we had a remarkable safety record of over 3.7 million man hours with zero Loss Time Injury,    LTI, and this positive record continues amid the pandemic. “The company’s employees have not been compelled to remain within the premises as a result of the pandemic, contrary to recent misleading media reports. We have a globally acclaimed procedure that requires a period of quarantine for people that have left the plant to ensure the safety of all our employees and their families. As a foremost corporate citizen, we are committed to the safety of all our employees and what we have at the plant is a collective responsibility shared by all employees to make everyone’s safety paramount.” Vanguard By Victor Young & Bose Adelaja Over 200 aggrieved wives of electricity workers at Egbin Power Plant, Ijede, Ikorodu, Lagos State, have stormed the firm's premises, demanding that their husbands be allowed to come home to attend to family needs. The protesting women claimed that their husbands had not been… June 11, 2020 In "News" WHEN you hear the saying: “the world is round”, take it seriously. It is not just a scientific fact; it is also a wise saying of the elders. What goes round comes round. Be nice to people because you will meet again as long as life lasts. June 30, 2016 In "People & Politics" Safety standards and procedures at Egbin Power Plc have helped the nation's largest power plant record incident free operations over the last 827 days, Kola Adesina, the company's chairman has said. September 12, 2017 In "Energy"