The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Police Command, CP Hakeem Odumosu, on Wednesday, at the command headquarters in Ikeja, refunded N500,000 cash to a businessman, who was extorted by a team of policemen. The businessman (names withheld) was arrested by policemen for violating the 10p.m. curfew. The officers were said to have threatened to detain him till the next day from where he would be charged to court. In the process, they were said to have collected N500,000 from him before he was released. However, the victim petitioned the command, following which the CP ordered an investigation into the matter. Briefing journalists on the outcome, Odumosu said the erring policemen were subsequently arrested and transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, SCID, Yaba, from where they were subjected to Orderly Room Trial. A visibly angry Odumosu warned that under his watch the command would not tolerate such unprofessional conduct from policemen. The Lagos CP said: “Appropriate disciplinary measures will be taken against the policemen.” On his part, the victim was full of praise for the command but refused to explain what transpired between him and the offending officers. Vanguard Two policemen:  Theophilus Otobo, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, ASP and  Inspector Oguntoba Olamigoke,  attached to Bariga Police Station in Lagos, have been arrested for firing the shot that snuffed life out of a teenager, along with Berger, by the Third Mainland bridge. May 29, 2020 In "Crime Guard" By Onome Amawhe Of all the commands in the Nigerian Police Force, Lagos holds the status of being the most strategic with its status as the nation's economic capital. Deploying a commissioner to head the command is not a decision lightly taken as the performance or lack of almost aggregates… November 28, 2019 In "News" Lagos State, commonly referred to as the pride of Nigeria, is said to have an estimated population of 24 million. Due to the state’s economic and socio political importance, Nigerians from other parts of the states troop into the city in search of greener pasture. Due to its seeming over… January 11, 2020 In "Crime Guard"