A foremost non-governmental based in Abuja has commended the Executive Governor of Kano State, Dr Abdullahi Gaduje for recently establishing the Kano State Anti-Corruption Institute. In a letter addressed to the Governor obtained by our correspondent, the group is known as Centre for Public Trust (CPT) congratulated Ganduje for what it described “as a bold and novel initiative that is capable of transforming the governance landscape in the state”. The group described the new Anti-Corruption Institute as ”a useful training arena for all arms of government and other stakeholders to research and learn towards evolving a homegrown anti-corruption approach that reflects the peculiarities of the Nigerian context especially Kano State.” CPT enjoined the Institute to try to ”build partnerships with similar institutes across Africa and the world for cross-fertilization of ideas and knowledge sharing.” According to the group, it is on record that Kano State remains the first state in Nigeria to establish a state anti-corruption agency. It will be recalled that the Kano State Anti-corruption and Public Complaints Commission established by the Ganduje administration and led by the anti-corruption czar, Bar. Magaji Muhuyi Rimingado has been very active in prosecuting embezzlers of public resources, promoting the amicable settlement of disputes and recovery of misappropriated funds. The organisation further called on other state governments to emulate the exemplary efforts of the Kano State Governor in bringing the fight against corruption closer to the grassroots level in order to deliver the dividends of democracy. Vanguard News By Abdulmumin Murtala - Kano Kano state Executive Council has approved the sum of N2.31 billion for the provision of infrastructure at the proposed site for the development of Inland Dry Port at Zawachiki in Kumbotso local government area of the state. Briefing newsmen on the outcome of the weekly… July 4, 2020 In "News" Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, has charged the media in Nigeria to continue to play their role as watchdog of society for the strengthening of democracy. August 18, 2017 In "News" Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, (SERAP) has sent an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari urging him to use his “good offices and leadership position to direct the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami, SAN, and/or appropriate anti-corruption agencies to without delay investigate allegations of… November 4, 2018 In "News"