A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory sitting at Maitama has issued warrant for the arrest of the immediate past Clerk of the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani-Omolori. Justice Suleiman Belgore made the order on the strength of an ex-parte application the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, brought before the court. The Commission, in the motion, marked M/8728/2020, which was moved by its lawyer, S.N. Robert, alleged that the former NASS Clerk spurned invitations it extended to him to report to its office over an investigation into a petition against him. The anti-graft agency said it was investigating a petition that accused the Respondent (Sani-Omolori) of complicity in the illegal diversion of 14 Toyota Hilux vehicles and 13 Peugeot 508 valued at over N400 million. It said that as part of its investigation activities, it invited the Secretary of the National Assembly Commission, Adamu Fika, Mr Oluseye Ajakaye and others to its office for questioning. The agency told the court that all those that were invited with respect to the alleged crime, made revelations that indicted the erstwhile NASS Clerk, following which letters were sent to him on November 4, 2019. It alleged that Sani-Omolori ignored the initial letter as well as another one that was sent to him on March 16, 2020. Consequently, the Commission, in an affidavit it attached to the application, said it was left with no option than to approach the court for a warrant of arrest to be issued against the Respondent. Meanwhile, after he had listened to EFCC’s lawyer, Justice Belgore held that he found merit in the application. “I have considered the application, I averted to Paragraph 7 of the supporting affidavit and Exhibit EFCC 4 wherein the respondent was said to have ignored invitations to report in the applicant’s office without any justifiable reason. “It is clear to me that Section 3 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA), 2015 can be invoked in the circumstances of this case in granting this application and I so do. “Warrant of immediate arrest is hereby issued against Mohammed Omolori, the former Clerk of the National Assembly forthwith,” Mr Belgore held. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Henry Umoru THE ongoing quagmire rocking the National Assembly, NASS, between the Clerk to the National Assembly, CNA, Mohammed Ataba Sani-Omolori and the Chairman, National Assembly Service Commission (NASC), Ahmed Amshi, Friday took a new dimension as Omolori has finally been sacked. In a letter signed yesterday night by… July 17, 2020 In "News" ***As Five-year tenure elongation faces setback, as Commission mulls reversal ***DSS summons Commission’s chair, union leaders By Henry Umoru ABUJA- STRONG indications have emerged that t the lingering crisis in the National Assembly, over the alleged tenure elongation of the Clerk, Mohammed Sani-Omolori, may soon be over, with serious search… June 3, 2020 In "Politics" By Henry Umoru The National Assembly is at the moment witnessing serious power play between the clerk, Mohammed Ataba Sani-Omolori and chairman, National Assembly Service Commission, NASC, Ahmed Amshi. The controversy revolves around the issue of retirement age of the clerk and 150 other directors at the National Assembly, just… July 15, 2020 In "News"