President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan has denied reports of plans to run for the Presidency, come 2023, just as he described such insinuations as beer parlour talks. In a statement yesterday in Abuja by his Special Adviser, Media, Lawan who noted that he will not be distracted by what he termed, false report under reference, said however that  it was premature for anybody to be talking now about 2023 when all hands should be on deck against the myriad of challenges that face the country  at the moment. The Statement read, “The attention of the office of the President of the Senate has been drawn to a rather puerile media report that the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, is making plans to run for president in 2023. The report was first published by the Daily Independent newspaper of Friday, 17th July, 2020 and reproduced later by the Sahara Reporters. “It is easy to see that the report emanated from the sort of practice that drags the noble profession of journalism to  the gutters as it only dresses up the lazy fantasy of its unimaginative authors as a fact. “The report apparently has its source in beer parlour gossips and should be treated with the contempt which it and those who concocted it deserves. “It is true that the Senate President was involved in the consultations that President Muhammadu Buhari held prior to the last emergency meeting of the National Executive Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress(APC). But there was nothing extra-ordinary in his involvement in such consultations, given his status as holder of one of the highest political offices in Nigeria and on the platform of the APC. Such is required of any concerned member of the party. It is therefore sheer mischief for anyone to read ulterior motives to the Senate President joining hands with the President and other leaders in resolving misunderstanding in their own party. “We will like to stress that the Senate President’s preoccupation is with advancing the agenda of the Ninth National Assembly to focus governance on the pursuit of the best interests of the Nigerian people and to support President Buhari in delivering his promises to Nigerians. “The Senate President does not suffer such needless distractions as imputed by the false report under reference. He believes that it is premature for anybody to be talking now about 2023 when all hands should be on deck against the myriad of challenges that faces our nation in this period. “We advise the idle pseudo-journalists to lookj for other engagements and stop bastardising this noble profession.” Vanguard CHAIRMAN, Senate Committee on Media and Publicity, Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi ( APC Niger North), has denied reports that plans were underway by the yet to be inaugurated 9th Senate to amend the constitution to keep President Muhammadu Buhari beyond 2023. March 28, 2019 In "News" The Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, on Monday declared that Nigerians will determine the fate of the controversial bill. Lawan also insisted that the 9th Senate and indeed the National Assembly should be judged by its actions and inactions. The Senate President made the declaration at a media parley in… December 16, 2019 In "News" TWENTY-FOUR hours to the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly, contenders for the various leadership positions were locked in last-minute horse-trading, last night, to get the upper hand at the election on the floors of the two chambers. June 10, 2019 In "Headlines"