ABUJA – All secondary schools in the country are to résumé academic activities August 4, 2020, the federal government has said. But the resumption, according to the Federal Ministry of Education, would only be for SS3 students writing the West African Examinations Council, WAEC and the National Examinations Council, NECO. According to the government, “Students will have two weeks within which to prepare for the West African Examinations (WAEC) due to start on the 17th of August, 2020.” A statement, Monday, by the Director of Press and Information of the ministry, Bem Goong, said, “These were the unanimous decisions reached today at a virtual consultative meeting between the Federal Ministry of Education, Honourable Commissioners of Education of the 36 states, the Nigerian Union of Teachers, (NUT), the proprietors of private schools, and Chief Executives of examination bodies.” The statement read: “Secondary schools in the country are to reopen as from the 4th of August, 2020 for exit classes only. “Students will have two weeks within which to prepare for the West African Examinations (WAEC) due to start on the 17th of August, 2020. “These were the unanimous decisions reached today at a virtual consultative meeting between the Federal Ministry of Education, Honourable Commissioners of Education of the 36 states, the Nigerian Union of Teachers, (NUT), the proprietors of private schools, and Chief Executives of examination bodies. “It was agreed that the exit classes should resume immediately after the Sallah break, from the 4th of August, 2020 to enable them prepare for the WAEC examinations scheduled to commence from the 17th of August, 2020. “The meeting also resolved that a passionate appeal be made to the Federal Government through the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19 and public spirited Nigerians for assistance to schools across the country to enable them fast track the preparations for safe reopening, as agreed. “Another meeting is to be convened tomorrow between the Federal Ministry of Education and Chief Executives of examination bodies namely, NECO, NABTEB and NBAIS to harmonise their examination dates, which will be conveyed to stakeholders expeditiously by the Federal Ministry of Education.” Vanguard News Nigeria Says students seriously traumatised By Adesina Wahab and Elizabeth Osayande The National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools, NAPPS, has called on the Federal Government to reconsider its position of not allowing students in the country take part in this year's West African Senior Secondary School Examination, WASSCE, to be… July 13, 2020 In "Education" By Ola Ajayi - Ibadan Commissioners for Education in the South West states have indicated their readiness to sit students in the zone for the West African Examination Council examination. This was disclosed after an online meeting which had in attendance the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria,  Southwest Commissioners of… July 16, 2020 In "Education" By Ibrahim HassanWuyo As steps were been taking to reopen schools after the COVID-19 lockdown, there should be continuous dialogue by all Stakeholders on how to reopen the schools with a view of protecting the lives of students and ensuring digital creative learning processes, Comrade Issa Aremu, Vice President Industriall… July 18, 2020 In "Education"