Angolan prosecutors on Tuesday sought a seven-year jail sentence for the son of former president Jose Eduardo dos Santos for allegedly embezzling $500 million from state coffers. Jose Filomeno dos Santos, 42, was summoned before Angola’s Supreme Court in December over allegations he tried to steal as much as $1.5 billion (1.3 euros) from the sovereign wealth fund, which he oversaw from 2013 to 2018. Nicknamed “Zenu”, Jose Filomeno dos Santos was charged with pilfering $500 million (445 million euros) from the fund — alongside the former governor of the national bank of Angola (BNA), Valter Filipe da Silva, and two others. The funds were alleged transferred to the funds to a Swiss bank during the dos Santos presidency. All four have denied the accusations. Deputy attorney-general Pascoal Joaquim asked judges to sentence Zenu and one collaborator to seven years in prison and hand the other two a 10-year sentence. “Since the beginning, the defendants have always had the intention to bypass the Angolan state,” Joaquim told the court in the capital Luanda. Zenu is the first member of the former presidential family to be prosecuted as part an anti-corruption campaign lead by President Joao Lourenco, who came to power in 2017 His predecessor led Angola for 38 years, leaving a legacy of poverty and nepotism in a country still recovering from a 1975-2002 civil war. Zenu was appointed head of the $5 billion fund in 2013, 34 years into his father’s reign. His half-sister Isabel dos Santos was ousted from her position as chair of the state oil giant Sonangol in November 2017. Cited by Forbes magazine as the richest woman in Africa, she is accused of diverting billions of dollars from state companies during the dos Santos presidency — allegations she has vehemently denied. In December a court in Luanda issued a “preventative” order to freeze her business assets as part of the investigation. Earlier on Tuesday, Lourenco reiterated his intention to combat graft. “Over the past two years we have done a lot and the evidence is there,” the president told members of his ruling People’s Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) party. “The authors are paying for the crimes they committed, which is different to what has been done… since independence.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Lawyers for the son of former Angolan president Jose Eduardo dos Santos have denied that he tried to steal $500 million (450 million euros) from the sovereign wealth fund he oversaw, during the second day of his corruption trial in Luanda on Tuesday. Jose Filomeno dos Santos, 41, also known… December 10, 2019 In "News" Angola's former first son Jose Filomeno dos Santos has spent hours contemplating the marble floor and wood-panelled walls of Luanda's Supreme Court where he has been on trial since December. The 42-year-old child of Jose Eduardo dos Santos could soon hear whether he is guilty of stealing millions of dollars… February 28, 2020 In "Foreign" The billionaire daughter of Angola's ex-president, Isabel dos Santos, has said she would consider running for president in the next election in 2022. Dos Santos has been targeted in an anti-graft campaign led by her father's successor President Joao Lourenco, who has vowed to fight corruption and rebuild the economy of… January 16, 2020 In "Foreign"