An independent panel of experts, headed by former Irish president Mary Robinson, has cleared the beleaguered leader of the African Bank of Development (AfDB) of corruption, according to a report obtained by AFP. Akinwumi Adesina, 60, a charismatic speaker known for his elegant suits and bow ties, became the first Nigerian to helm the AfDB in 2015 — but a 15-page report earlier this year claimed that under his watch the bank had been tarred by poor governance, impunity, personal enrichment and favouritism. The panel of three experts, led by Robinson alongside Gambia’s Chief Justice Hassan Jallow and the World Bank’s integrity vice president Leonard McCarthy, cleared Adesina of all charges alleged by whistleblowers. “The Panel concurs with the Committee in its findings in respect of all the allegations against the President and finds that they were properly considered and dismissed by the Committee,” Monday’s report concluded. The African banking institution and Adesina — who is the sole candidate for the bank’s August’s presidential elections — has been battered by the rollercoaster of allegations after the whistleblowers’ complaints were leaked to the media in April. The former Nigerian finance minister had always stated he was “innocent” of the charges. Robinson — who led Ireland from 1990 to 1997 before serving as the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights until 2002 — dismissed the 16 whistleblower allegations against Adesina. The panel did not investigate the charges themselves, as that was not within their mandate. The AfDB plays an important if largely behind-the-scenes role in African economies, financing projects in agriculture, health, energy, education, transport and other development sectors. AFP Vanguard News Nigeria Ireland's former president, Mary Robinson, will lead a panel to review the African Development Bank, AfDB's Ethics Committee report on the bank's boss, Akinwunmi Adesina, the bank said. Akinwumi Adesina, 60, a charismatic speaker known for his elegant suits and bow ties, became the first Nigerian to helm the AfDB… July 2, 2020 In "News" The African Development Bank (AfDB) on Thursday said "no decision" had been taken regarding a US push for an outside probe into its president, Akinwumi Adesina accused by whistleblowers of ethics breaches. US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says Washington is dissatisfied with the outcome of an internal inquiry that has… May 29, 2020 In "News" African Diaspora Congress (ADC) has said that Nigeria as the largest shareholder in the African Development Bank, AfDB should take the upper hand in its administrative direction than any other country of the world. June 2, 2020 In "News"