The Africa Educational Management and Leadership Forum, a front line educational conference in Africa will, on July 17, bring together some of the best minds in and outside the education sector to discuss possible solutions to challenges facing the educational system in the African continent. Top education experts expected to speak at the forum to be held in Lagos include Dr. Aderemi Oladele, Senior Research Officer, Permanent Delegation of Nigeria to United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation, UNESCO. Others are Founder and Lead Analyst, 3psmars International, who will be delivering the keynote address from Paris, France; Ms. Abra Stoakley, Head of School/CEO, Grange School, Lagos; Mrs. Adetokunbo Matilukuro, Head of School, Corona School, Lekki, and Mrs. Okeyinfu Ajayi, ED, Busy Mind Centre and Soundview Consulting. Other notable speakers on education in Africa are Ms. Ronke Posh Adeniyi, Director, Le Poshe School, Ikoyi; Mrs. Esther Muchiri-Wamai, Special Needs Education Expert, Kenya Community Learning Centre; Mr. Johnson Abbaly, President, Achievers Consortium International and Founder, Successor Generation Community and  Mr. Adeleke Adesina, Director, The Rock Empire Group of Schools. Vanguard Africa Educational Management Forum, AEF, An education and children development hub, has called on government at all levels to integrate information and communication technology into teaching and learning to boost learning process and enhance the quality of education in the country. July 1, 2020 In "News" As Nigeria prepares to celebrate yet another Children’s Day on Monday, May 27, there is an increased need for proper management of the country’s resources to ensure that the over 10.5 million out-of-school (OOS) children are absorbed into the school system. May 23, 2013 In "Education" As part of its avowed mission to empower the people by promoting reading culture and bringing books and other instructional materials closer to the people for better education and self-improvement , the Nigerian Book Fair Trust Fund last week held its 11th edition of the Nigeria International Book Fair (NIBF… May 17, 2012 In "The Arts"