As the ongoing probe into the activities of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, got messier on Tuesday, Senator Shehu Sani said from being a solution, the Commission had morphed into the region’s problem. Recall that Shehu represented Kaduna Central in the Senate from 2015 to 2019. Speaking on the probe, Senator Shehu Sani said the NDDC had become a problem to the people of the Niger Delta region. Sani made his position known on Tuesday, on his twitter handle: @Shehusani. Sani, who prides himself as a human rights activist and dedicated fighter for freedom and justice, also mocked the Niger Delta people for thinking their “enemies” are from the northern part of the country. He tweeted: “Niger Deltans used to think all their enemies are in Sokoto, while they are actually in their shokoto (shirt). “NDDC was created to solve the problems of Niger Delta. (But)it has become the problem of Niger Delta.” At 8.40p.m. on Tuesday, the Shehu Sani’s tweet had garnered over 11,000 likes and over 3,200 retweets/comments. Meanwhile, the House of Representatives Speaker, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila, gave Senator Godswill Akpabio, Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, 48 hours to name the lawmakers who got contracts from the NDDC. In the Senate, the lawmakers sent the Acting Executive Director, Projects, Interim Management Committee, IMC, of NDDC, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh, out of the hearing room over his insistence that the chairman of the panel, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, should step down on the grounds that the NDDC officials would not get fair-hearing from him. Niger Deltans used to think all their enemies are in Sokoto while they are actually in their shokoto. — Senator Shehu Sani (@ShehuSani) July 21, 2020  VANGUARD ABUJA- MINISTER of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio told the Senate yesterday that if the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC must address the challenges of the Niger Delta region, it has become very imperative for both the Senate and the House of Representatives to closely monitor the Budget of… July 10, 2020 In "News" Convener, South-South Reawakening Group, Mr., Joseph Abakederemo, in this interview, speaks on the state of affairs in the Niger Delta region and clamour for regional security outfits among other issues. February 23, 2020 In "Interviews" THE week did not pass without a spectacle by some top officials of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, and the National Assembly, whose planned investigation of the Interim Management Committee, IMC,  of the interventionist  agency over an alleged expenditure of N40 billion has ignited fiery controversy in Niger Delta region . May 30, 2020 In "News"