The Chairman/CEO of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOm), Abike Dabiri-Erewa in a press statement on Tuesday, again, appealed to the Authorities of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to as a matter of urgency intervene by promptly paying the allowances, tuition and other incentives of students on their scholarship scheme, to guarantee their stay and continue their education in the United Kingdom. A statement issued in Abuja by Mr Gabriel Odu of the Media, Public Relations and Protocol Unit, NIDCOM, made reference to a letter written to the Hon Minister of the Niger Delta Sen. Godswill Akpabio, dated June 18, 2020, NIDC/001/20/1 drawing attention to the plight of the students, and urging the NDDC who are directly responsible for the Students’ scholarships.to pay. She added that the Commission counts on the Minister’s assurances that all outstanding payments to affected students will be made. According to the statement, at the moment there have been persistent calls by the students on NDDC scholarship for urgent intervention. While the deadline for payment of the fees of some of the students have expired or about to expire, non-payment of their allowances have turned many of them to virtually become beggars The NIDCOM CHAIRMAN once again appeal to the Niger Delta Ministry and the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, to intervene urgently and promptly too. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Victoria Ojeme Chairman and CEO, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa has appealed to the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to pay the allowances, tuition and other incentives of students on their scholarship scheme, to guarantee their stay and continue their education in the United Kingdom(UK). A statement… July 29, 2020 In "News" THE All  Progressives Congress, APC-led Federal Government, and opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, were at each other’s throats yesterday over probe of financial malfeasance in the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. July 29, 2020 In "News" The Chairman of Nigeria Diaspora Commission has disclosed that Nigeria Diaspora remittances, now estimated at nearly $26 billion per per annum. March 16, 2020 In "News"