Dubai police, Thursday handed over a suspected internet scamster and an Instagram influencer, Raymond Abbas, aka Hushpuppi, to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, in the US. Hushpuppi who has been accused of scamming people via the internet was arrested 10th of June in Dubai. Appreciating Dubai police for the role it played in ensuring the arrest of Hushpuppi and his gang, Christopher Wray, FBI Director, said: “I thank the exceptional efforts (of Dubai Police) in fighting organised cyber crimes and arresting Hushpuppi and Woodbery,”. Details later: #News | FBI thanks Dubai Police for arresting and extraditing “Hushpuppi” and “Woodberry” Details:https://t.co/1fZijfahcH#YourSecurityOurHappiness#SmartSecureTogether pic.twitter.com/SflotWAHOA — Dubai Policeشرطة دبي (@DubaiPoliceHQ) July 2, 2020  You would recall that in June, it was reported that the Dubai Interpol and the FBI apprehended the Big Boy in his residence in the United Arab Emirates country. A trending video online couple of days ago first confirmed the arrest of the high-spending Gucci fanatic following an extensive operation named “Fox Hunt 2”, which revealed a hidden online fraud network that was committing crimes outside the UAE, including money-laundering, cyber fraud, hacking, criminal impersonation, banking fraud and identity theft. About 1.6bn Dhirams stolen was stolen by them, they had over 1.9m victims, over 25m Dhirams in cars, 150m worth in items. The successful raid resulted in the confiscation of incriminating documents pertaining to a well-planned international fraud, worth Dh1.6 billion(N168 billion). The video instigates the Dubai Police’s commitment to fighting crime and corruption in the country. The video has since gone viral on the internet with Nigerians having a lot to say about the situation. Watch video here YOU MAY LIKE THIS  Vanguard Ripples over the arraignment of social media celebrity, Raymond Abass, aka Hushpuppi, in the United States, took a different turn, yesterday, as All Progressives Congress, APC, and Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, tackled each other over alleged close relationship with the suspected internet fraudster. July 5, 2020 In "News" By Ojelu Henry Hushpuppi’s extradition may have been made possible through a formal application by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, as the United States of America, USA, does not have an extradition treaty with the UAE. According to the UAE Extradition Law, a formal request must be sent by… July 3, 2020 In "Crime Alert" By Rasheed Sobowale The legal counsel to Nigerian Instagram big boy, Ramon Abbas, (a.ka. Hushpuppi) has claimed he was "kidnapped" from Dubai by the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). According to Gal Pissetzky of Pissetzky & Berliner, the FBI and the United States government "acted illegally when they… July 10, 2020 In "News"