Some 4.4 million people or 6.7 per cent of the population of mainland France were likely infected with the coronavirus by mid-April, health authorities said on Friday. The figure was estimated on the basis of a campaign of antibody testing, Sante Publique France (Public Health France) said in its weekly epidemiological update. France was one of the European countries hardest hit by Covid-19, with 29,979 deaths recorded as of Thursday. A strict lockdown was in place from mid-March to mid-May. Sante Publique France warned that the number of confirmed cases was now rising again in mainland France, but remained at a low level. Surveys showed that compliance with several preventive measures, including avoiding handshakes and keeping at least 1 metre from other people, was declining, although mask wearing was stable. The body warned that the epidemic has continued to spread in the South American territory of French Guiana. Unlike in mainland France, the disease was circulating in the community there and rates of hospitalisation and admissions to intensive care were on the rise, Sante Publique France said. France’s new Prime Minister, Jean Castex, is due to visit the territory on Sunday along with Health Minister Olivier Veran. DPA Vanguard News Nigeria The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic is now "under control" in France, the head of the government's scientific advisory council said Friday, as the country cautiously emerges from a lockdown imposed in March. "We can reasonably say the virus is currently under control," Jean-Francois Delfraissy told France Inter radio. "The virus is… June 5, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" A 60-year-old man has become the first French victim of the coronavirus in the country, the health ministry announced Wednesday. The man died overnight after being rushed to a Paris hospital in serious condition on Tuesday evening, bringing the death toll in the country to two, said the ministry's deputy… February 26, 2020 In "Foreign" An 80-year-old Chinese tourist has died from the new coronavirus in France, the first death confirmed outside of Asia, French Health Minister Agnes Buzyn said on Saturday. Buzyn said she had been told about the death of the patient -- in hospital in Paris since late January -- late on… February 15, 2020 In "Foreign"