An Indian man said he paid about $4,000 for a bespoke gold face mask to protect him from the coronavirus raging in the country. The precious metal covering weighs 60 grams (two ounces) and took craftsmen eight days to make, said businessman Shankar Kurhade, from the western city of Pune. “It is a thin mask and has tiny pores that is helping me to breathe,” Shankar told AFP. “I am not sure if it will be effective to protect me from a coronavirus infection but I am taking other precautions,” he added. When going out, the 49-year-old said he likes to adorn himself with gold jewellery weighing a kilogramme, including a bracelet, necklace, and rings on each finger of his right hand. Kurhade — whose company makes industrial sheds — said he got the idea for the gold face mask after seeing a media report about a man wearing one made from silver. “People are asking me for selfies,” he said. “They are awestruck when they see me wearing the gold mask in markets (in compliance with the coronavirus prevention guidelines).” India has made face masks mandatory in public places in a bid to control the spread of the virus in the country, which has around 650,000 confirmed cases and more than 18,600 fatalities. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Mexico reported 523 more coronavirus deaths on Saturday, pushing its tally to 30,366, overtaking France to become the fifth-highest in the world. The health ministry also reported 6,914 new infections and a total of 252,165 confirmed cases. Deputy Health Minister Hugo Gatell reiterated that the actual number of infected was… July 5, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Non-compliance to the guidelines to contain raging coronavirus has shown a huge increase in infection rates across Nigeria and Lagos in particular. Between Monday and Thursday (four days), Nigeria recorded a total of 2,395 cases. Out of this number, Lagos contributed 33 per cent with a total of 793 cases. June 21, 2020 In "Health" Experts cite poor enforcement of guidelines, warn of more difficult days ahead By Chioma Obinna Non-compliance to the guidelines to contain raging coronavirus has shown a huge increase in infection rates across Nigeria and Lagos in particular. Between Monday and Thursday (four days), Nigeria recorded a total of 2,395 cases.… June 21, 2020 In "Health"