The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, says passengers on domestic flights are to arrive the airport one hour, 30 minutes more before take-off. Sirika announced this during the Presidential Task Force (PTF) briefing, on COVID-19 on Monday in Abuja. Recall that the review on arrival time is a reduction from the initial three hours standard set by the Ministry of Aviation and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), after the airports where reopened following the COVID-19 ban. The minister explained that the reason for the review was because the planes have been sequenced in such a way that the crowd at the airports have been reduced drastically and hence, the decision to review the arrival time. FAAN had earlier said that passengers, who would be travelling upon resumption of flights, must be at the airport three hours before take-off time. This, it said, was necessary to allow time for passengers to go through the necessary COVID-19 checks before boarding flights. The aviation agency shared the information on its official Twiter account “COVID-19 Flight Resumption Protocol for Passengers: You are advised to arrive at the airport three hours before your flight due to the new COVID-19’’. In an earlier announcement, FAAN said persons without face masks would not be allowed entry into the airport terminal building. It also advised passengers to maintain a two-metre distance from one another. Henrietta Yakubu, FAAN’s Corporate Affairs Manager, had also said that escorts of VIPs would no longer be allowed to follow their subjects into the terminal. Yakubu added that such individuals would be subjected to all health checks. The Minister of Aviation,  Senator Hadi Sirika, says that Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos and Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano are ready for recommencement of domestic flights. July 6, 2020 In "News" Passengers travelling abroad through Nigeria’s airport terminals are required to arrive five hours before departure to undergo COVID-19 protocols, the Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, has said. The minister said this on Saturday at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja, when announcing some of the measures introduced for the… June 28, 2020 In "News" By Dirisu Yakubu Ahead of the imminent lifting of restriction on air travel in the country,  the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, FAAN, yesterday, conducted  a simulation exercise at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja. This was done to test safety protocols designed to contain the spread of COVID-19 at… June 27, 2020 In "News"