KANO – A Twenty-Five-year-old man identified as Ashiru Musa Danrimi has allegedly stabbed himself to death with a knife in Kano State as his fiancee jilted him by settling down for marriage with another man. It was gathered that the incident leading to the death of the member of a Neighborhood watch, Musa, occurred on Thursday in Danrimi, Kadawa ward, Ungogo local government area of Kano state. Sources in the area who spoke on condition of anonymity said Musa took his own life after his relationship with his fiancee, Umi Muhammad failed to workout after financial investments and commitments. They said the relationship between late Musa and Umi was a popular one within the neighborhood, and that not expected by many to end in a tragedy. When contacted, the Kano State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa confirmed the incidence to newsmen saying the Commissioner of Police, CP Habu Sani has ordered a comprehensive investigation into the tragic incident. “We took the man to the Murtala hospital and he was pronounced dead on arrival at the hospital. The Commissioner of Police has ordered an investigation on circumstances surrounding the tragic incident,” DSP Haruna however said. Vanguard News Nigeria The Kano State Police Command has arrested two suspects, Kamalu Musa and another simply called Babangida, both residents of Shekar Maidaki Quarters Kano, for allegedly stabbing a man to death. March 4, 2019 In "News" A 33-year-old-man, Oluwatosin Otaiku, last weekend, allegedly stabbed himself to death over disagreement with his fiancee, identified as Olaogun Oluwatoyin. Vanguard gathered that the deceased decided to kill himself few weeks after he was told by his girlfriend that she was no more interested in the relationship. July 1, 2014 In "News" By Bashir Bello - Kano An 18-year-old boy, identified as Musa Muh'd has been allegedly stabbed to death with scissors by his peer group over dispute in Danstinke Area of Tarauni Local Government, Kano State. It was gathered that trouble started between them when Aminu Torres (23yrs) allegedly sent Musa… August 19, 2020 In "Metro"