A highly anticipated congressional hearing on anti-competitive practices, bringing together the heads of four US technology giants, has been rescheduled for noon (1600 GMT) Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee has announced. The heads of Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple — the world’s biggest technology companies — will be testifying at a time of growing complaints about their dominance and amid calls by some politicians and activists to break them up. The hearing, originally set for Monday, was rescheduled. The committee did not offer a reason, but civil rights icon and long-time congressman John Lewis will be lying in state in the US Capitol on Monday and Tuesday. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, the four tech leaders — Jeff Bezos (Amazon), Tim Cook (Apple), Mark Zuckerberg (Facebook) and Sundar Pichai (Alphabet, the parent company of Google and YouTube) — will be allowed to appear virtually if they wish. It will be a first congressional appearance for Bezos, who also owns The Washington Post. Pressure has been growing both from the right and the left — and sometimes internally — to do something about the overwhelming dominance of the internet platforms. The Judiciary Committee has spent more than a year conducting a sweeping investigation into the four companies to determine whether they are guilty of any antitrust abuses and if so, to consider possible remedies. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Big Tech CEOs faced an onslaught of criticism from US lawmakers Wednesday at a high-stakes antitrust hearing which could lay the groundwork for tougher regulation of the major internet platforms. CEOs Tim Cook of Apple, Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Sundar Pichai of Google were grilled… July 30, 2020 In "Technology" Apple on Wednesday became the first US company to reach $2 trillion in market value in the latest demonstration of how tech giants have benefited from the upheaval of the coronavirus. The iPhone maker attained the distinction in mid-morning trading and was up 1.1 percent at $467.18 near 1545 GMT.… August 19, 2020 In "Foreign" Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg will testify in Congress next week over the hijacking of users' personal data by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, a House committee announced Wednesday. April 4, 2018 In "News"