Osun State Government on Friday said it has spent over N900 million on the fight against coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the state. The Commissioner for Health, Dr Rafiu Isamotu, revealed this during an inter-ministerial press briefing, held at the Exco Chamber of the Governor’s Office in Osogbo. He said the COVID-19 taskforce has received huge support from the state Governor, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola in all its operations. Isamotu said the cost covers all the logistics, overhead and setting up isolation centres equipped with eight ventilators. “Mr Governor has really done well in the fight against the coronavirus. Within our little resources, we have spent over N900 million in the fight against COVID-19. If we sum everything ranging from our isolation centre, the drugs, the enforcement and many more. “As part of the fight against COVID-19, We built 350-bed space isolation centres, while test kits, drugs and other medical items, worth N251.5 million, were also procured and supplied to all the health centres and hospitals in the state”. Speaking on how $20 million World Bank Health grant was expended, the Health Commissioner said apart from the renovation and upgrading of 332 Primary Healthcare Centres across the state, he said all the state general hospitals were also renovated, upgraded and equipped, while 120 new bed wards and 30 doctors’ quarters were also built. Corroborating the commissioner of health, the state Commissioner for Works and Transport, Remi Omowaiye, explained that in addition to revitalizing the 332 health centres in the state, the sum of N100, 000 is given to each of the centres monthly as their running cost. Meanwhile, Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs Olufunke Egbemode, the state Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation sought the cooperation of residents on the importance of using face mask as preventive measure against COVID-19, adding that government would not hesitate to unleash the full wrath of the law against those erring against guidelines put in place to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Coalition Against (CACOVID),  a private sector initiative on Wednesday donated a 100-bed isolation centre to Osun State government, saying the gesture was aimed at complementing the fight against coronavirus pandemic in the state. May 20, 2020 In "News" The Osun Government says an 82-year-old woman recovered from the coronavirus disease in the state, against the belief that elderly people with chronic diseases are the highest risk group. Dr Rafiu Isamotu, the State Commissioner for Health, confirmed the recovery in a statement on Friday in Osogbo. Isamotu said that… May 30, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" THE Osun State Government, yesterday, stated that a new case of Coronavirus has been recorded in the State as confirmed by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC. May 12, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"