The Ondo State Executive Committee (SEC) of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) on Tuesday, had a virtual meeting of stakeholders during which it had extensive deliberations on what it described as a “needless leadership crisis” in the party. In a statement made available to newsmen, the state acting chairman of the SDP, Barrister Dele Thomas disclosed that the apex organ of the party is not aware of any arrangement for the composition and inauguration of the Caretaker Committee in Ondo State. The State Executive Committee of the party stated that “Ondo State Commissioner of Police should immediately shove out any illegally constituted Caretaker Committee from the state party secretariat in Akure”. On the dissolution of the state working committees, The State Executive Committee pointed out  that the“Constitution of SDP makes it explicitly clear enough that the National Working Committee of the party do not, and cannot dissolve any State Working Committee without the approval of the National Executive Committee (NEC)” Read the full State Executive Committee’s resolve below : iii. Members of the State Executive Committee of SDP in Ondo State passed a vote of confidence on the leadership of Barrister Dele Thomas. Therefore, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is hereby requested to accord Barrister Dele Thomas his due recognition as the Acting Ondo State Chairman of SDP. Vanguard News Following the crisis in the Ondo State chapter of Social Democratic Party (SDP), the Acting Chairman of the party, Dele Thomas has called on the Inspector-General of Police, to instruct Ondo State Commissioner of Police to immediately seal up the party secretariat in the state. July 7, 2020 In "Politics" The Social Democratic Party(SDP) has said that it will present a candidate for the Ondo State 2020 governorship election. Dr. Olu Agunloye, SDP Deputy National Chairman (South), made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday on the sidelines of a meeting with the… November 8, 2019 In "News" CRISIS has hit the Social Democratic Party SDP in Ondo State has the state secretary of the party Dele Ogunbameru and other executive members were yesterday placed on indefinite suspension for anti-party activities. October 25, 2017 In "News"