Alleged criminal mastermind, Raymond Igbalode Abbas, known as ‘Hushpuppi’ has been extradited from the United Arab Emirates (Dubai) to the United States. This is according to statement by the Dubai Police in which the US Federal Bureau of Investigations extended its gratitude to the UAE crime unit for its role in apprehending and extraditing ‘Hushpuppi’. In June, the Dubai Police had arrested Hushpuppi, Olalekan Jacob Ponle, known as ‘Woodberry’, and 10 others in an operation tagged ‘Fox Hunt’. “The suspects were accused of committing crimes outside the UAE, including money-laundering, cyber fraud, hacking, criminal impersonating, scamming individuals, banking fraud and identity theft,” the Dubai Police said. Before his arrest, Hushpuppi had gained fame on social media for his outlandish display of wealth. Director of Dubai CID, Brigadier Jamal Salem Al Jallaf said the raid that led to his arrest resulted in the confiscation of incriminating documents of a planned fraud on a global scale worth AED 1.6 billion ($ 435 million). “The team also seized more than AED 150 million ($40.9 million) in cash, 13 luxury cars with an estimated value of AED 25 million ($6.8 million) obtained from fraud crimes, and confiscated 21 computer devices, 47 smartphones, 15 memory sticks, five hard disks containing 119,580 fraud files as well as addresses of 1,926,400 victims,” he said. After conducting further investigations and analysing confiscated electronic devices, Dubai Police investigators uncovered sensitive information mined by the suspects on individuals and companies overseas including bank accounts and fake credit cards as well as documents and files condemning the gangs’ illegal activities, the Dubai Police said. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Rasheed Sobowale The legal counsel to Nigerian Instagram big boy, Ramon Abbas, (a.ka. Hushpuppi) has claimed he was "kidnapped" from Dubai by the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). According to Gal Pissetzky of Pissetzky & Berliner, the FBI and the United States government "acted illegally when they… July 10, 2020 In "News" Ripples over the arraignment of social media celebrity, Raymond Abass, aka Hushpuppi, in the United States, took a different turn, yesterday, as All Progressives Congress, APC, and Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, tackled each other over alleged close relationship with the suspected internet fraudster. July 5, 2020 In "News" Dubai police, Thursday handed over a suspected internet scamster and an Instagram influencer, Raymond Abbas, aka Hushpuppi, to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, in the US. July 2, 2020 In "News"