Porto clinched their 29th Portuguese Primeira Liga title on Wednesday with two games to spare after a 2-0 win over Sporting Lisbon. Sergio Conceicao’s men went into the match needing only a point to secure the league due to their superior head-to-head record over second-placed Benfica. The victory ensured they won the championship in style, moving eight points clear of last season’s champions Benfica who have won a record 37 titles. Porto only led Benfica by one point when the campaign resumed following the coronavirus lockdown last month, but their old rivals have faltered and coach Bruno Lage was replaced as coach with their title defence in tatters. The home side got off to a nervy start at the Estadio do Dragao, as Sporting forward Andraz Sporar saw a goal ruled out by VAR for offside in the very first minute. Midfielder Danilo Pereira scored just his second league goal this term in the 64th minute though, allowing Porto to cruise through the rest of the game. Mali striker Moussa Marega added a second in injury-time, his 11th of the triumphant campaign. Porto, Benfica and Sporting have won the Portuguese league title every year bar two between them since the inaugural season in 1934-35. But Benfica had been dominant in recent years, with this only Porto’s second championship since 2013 after also taking the spoils in the 2017-18 season. Sporting, who sit a distant third this term, have not lifted the trophy since 2002. VANGUARD Benfica held off the challenge of bitter rivals Sporting to win a third straight Portuguese title by beating Nacional 4-1 on the final day of the season on Sunday. Captain Nico Gaitan scored twice with top scorer Jonas, with his 32nd league goal of the season, and Pizzi also on… May 15, 2016 In "Sports" AMSTERDAM AFP) - After a turbulent season, history beckons for Chelsea in Wednesday's Europa League final in Amsterdam, where they will meet a Benfica team reeling from a devastating domestic defeat by arch rivals Porto. May 14, 2013 In "Sports" Porto coach Julen Lopetegui is targeting another top display to knock Bayern Munich out of Europe, having arrived in Bavaria holding a two-goal lead for Tuesday's Champions League's quarter-final, second-leg April 21, 2015 In "Sports"