The Special Adviser to Edo State Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, has said that “the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the September 19 gubernatorial election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, former National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and their ilk, will face defeat in the hands of well-meaning Edo people at the poll, come September 19. Osagie noted that “Governor Obaseki has unwavering faith in his works and the growing support of millions of Edo people, who are the actual voters that will re-elect Obaseki for another term in office.” The Governor’s aide stressed: “the avalanche of lies being bandied by Ize-Iyamu and his cronies who have run out of ideas in their desperate effort to sell a very bad product for the Edo gubernatorial election will not save them from their imminent defeat. “Ize-Iyamu knows beyond a doubt that his political career will be terminated unceremoniously on September 19 by Governor Obaseki and no desperate lie can save him now.” According to Osagie “Edo people have come to the full understanding of Obaseki’s brand of politics which is about the greatest good possible, for the greater number of people as against Ize-Iyamu’s retrogressive politics. “Edo State under Obaseki has since shaken off the last vestiges of bad governance, and our people are determined, more than ever, to sustain the progress we have so far witnessed, with their votes. “With Obaseki, trust, accountability to the people, integrity, our common dignity are the driving forces. These qualities have been demonstrated over and over again in the last three years and seven months, and a renewed four-year mandate from Edo people will turbo-charge us to deliver more dividends of democracy. “Followers of the campaigns in Edo State, have in the past few days expressed their readiness to file behind Obaseki come September 19, on the back of our scorecard, that has moving stories of how Obaseki has reformed pension management in Edo State, from an era of pain, sorrow and death of pensioners in endless queues and during protests, to an era in which the people’s governor cleared all pension arrears that have accumulated since 1996. “Our achievements in the education sector have been referenced by national and sub-national governments, who have come to Benin to learn how we transformed public education in our state. “In sports, civil service reforms and the provision of infrastructure, and other sectors, our achievements are there for everyone to see. “Edo State is now rated as the best place to live and do business since we rid our streets of political thugs who constituted a nuisance to decent living and businesses. Expectedly, some of these thugs are today’s Ize-Iyamu’s cheerleaders. “Edo is the only state today, where you can buy a plot of land, get your certificate of occupancy (C-of-O) in less than two months and build your house without any area boy coming to harass or intimidate you. “These achievements and more, underpin Edo people’s faith in Obaseki and we are ready to keep things this way for another four years.” Vanguard Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his associates in Edo All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains must have been unhappy about the drama in the ruling party at the federal level that terminated his leadership. July 5, 2020 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Monday said that the elected governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu is no match to any of its aspirants in the coming Edo Gubernatorial election. June 22, 2020 In "News" ABUJA—THE battle  for the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, governorship ticket in Edo State is panning out as a two-horse race between Governor Godwin Obaseki and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. May 28, 2020 In "News"