Apparently looking for a way to cushion the effects of the COVID-19 on children education, insurance company, AXA Mansard plc, has floated Children’s Day Challenge tagged AXAKidsRock to support children education in Nigeria. The event kickstarted May 22, 2020, and had many children in participation, gunning for prizes such as Laptops, school supplies and Data Bundles to support the educational learning online. Several kids participated by posting their pictures with a caption that best described them on their Instagram and Facebook pages using the hashtags: AXAKidsRock AXAMansard. Chief Marketing Officer, AXA Mansard, Mrs Jumoke Odunlami said: “We believe children are the key to the better Nigeria that we all dream about and thus we are committed to helping prepare them to achieve their hopes and aspirations.” The challenge which concluded on the last children’s day had a 6-year-old girl, Khaira Bashir winning the grand prize. There were also consolation prizes for the runners-up and other 30 entries. Odunlami, added that “We are aware that many parents have turned to the comfort of online learning to engage their kids during these unprecedented times, ensuring their learning journeys continue. We want to support these parents as much as we can; we want to support their kids as much as we can. Kids remain the joy of every parent, every nation and every society. At AXA Mansard, children remain at the heart of all we do. VANGUARD    In commemoration of 2019 Children’s Day celebration in Nigeria, AXA Mansard Insurance Plc, a member of the AXA Group, has collaborated with Best Man Games Limited for the 3rd Children’s Finance Fair. June 19, 2019 In "News" AXA Mansard, a member of AXA, a global leader in insurance and asset management, said it is committed to promoting youth sports as well as healthy living and development amongst children. March 19, 2019 In "News" IN commemoration of the annual Children’s Day celebration in Nigeria, AXA Mansard Insurance Plc, a member of the AXA Group and global leader in insurance and asset management has partnered with ‘Money Matters with Nimi Akinkugbe’    to host the 2nd  edition of the Annual Children’s Finance Fair. May 25, 2018 In "Business"