Tottenham boss Jose Mourinho believes achieving home dominance like champions Liverpool is becoming more difficult due to increasingly competitive Premier League standards. Jurgen Klopp’s title-winning Reds completed a third consecutive unbeaten league campaign at Anfield with their 5-3 win over Chelsea on Wednesday. Mourinho knows plenty about building that sort of record, having once gone 150 games without a home league loss across a nine-year period spanning four clubs. But while the Spurs boss thinks Tottenham Hotspur Stadium can still become a fortress, he views Liverpool’s incredible three-season stretch as an anomaly. “I think the Premier League is getting into a direction where these unbeaten records are something more and more difficult to achieve because of the level of the teams,” Mourinho told Sky Sports. “But to be strong at home and to arrive at the end of each season with an important number of points in your pocket from home matches is very important. “I think our recent results at home without the fans are important, but we need them back. “I can imagine that [2-1] victory against Arsenal with the stadium full of Tottenham fans. This is the kind of empathy that you can create step by step.” He added: “Without supporters, you can create a kind of fortress, but based on the tactical side of the game. “But, I think with fans, you can do it in a much stronger way because you add the emotional side of the game that only your fans in your stadium can give to you.” Tottenham wraps up their Premier League season with a short trip to Crystal Palace on Sunday. Mourinho’s men must hope Wolves drop points against Chelsea to be in with a chance of snatching sixth and a guaranteed Europa League spot. Fotmob Vanguard Jose Mourinho hopes Diego Costa's return from suspension will provide troubled champions Chelsea with the spark to ignite their spluttering campaign. October 17, 2015 In "Sports" Liverpool moved to within nine points of claiming the Premier League title by coming from behind to beat Bournemouth 2-1 as Tottenham and Wolves missed the chance to put pressure on Chelsea for a top-four finish. Sheffield United were the big winners in the race for a place in the… March 7, 2020 In "Sports" Tottenham ended Chelsea's unbeaten run with a stylish display, while champions Manchester City crushed West Ham to maintain their lead at the top. November 25, 2018 In "Sports"