The Nigeria Immigration Service, NIS, at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos, has stopped 58 London-bound Nigerian medical doctors from traveling. A statement from the media office of the NIS said the doctors “attempted travelling aboard a UK-bound aircraft flight number ENT 550, registration number SP-ES that flew in from London.” The statement added that “fifty-six of the doctors had no entry visa to the United Kingdom, while only two had visa. “The 58 medical doctors were refused departure in line with Section 31 subsection 2a and b, on powers conferred on the Comptroller General of Nigeria Immigration Service by the Immigration Act 2015, to prohibit departure of any person under the conditions stated in the Act. “The chartered flight approved for landing in Nigeria was to carry 42 medical doctors for a training programme, but they were 58 with only two having visa for entry into the UK, a situation that calls for refusal of departure. “The Nigeria Immigration Service, as the agency saddled with control of entry and departure from Nigeria of persons, will not allow individuals or groups of well-educated Nigerians who should know the procedures for travelling out of their country and the requirements, which include having a valid visa for entry into a destination country, to leave. “This is to avoid refusal of entry and repatriation back to Nigeria amid Covid-19 pandemic and spreading of same as well as flouting the Federal Government’s directive on the restriction of international flights unless for essential reasons as approved by the government. “There is no official communication to the Service from the Ministry of Health in Nigeria or any known medical body notifying the NIS of the travel of this number of medical doctors. The aircraft has departed for London without the medical doctors. “The Comptroller General of Nigeria Immigration Service, Muhammad Babandede, is taking this opportunity to advise Nigerians to always adhere to travel protocols and ensure they have valid passports with a valid visa to the country they intended travelling to, before going to any airport, seaport or land border control to avoid refusal to depart.” Vanguard FIFTY Nigerians were, yesterday, deported from eight European countries over what the Department of State Services, DSS, airport command said were immigration and drug-related offences. April 7, 2017 In "News" Ogadi, 46 had always nursed a dream to live and work in America. Immediately he finished his secondary school in one of the Ajegunle schools in Lagos, travelling abroad became his main focus. For years, Ogadi nursed the dream and made several attempts that failed. May 6, 2017 In "Special Report" The Operatives of Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), Command in Lagos, has apprehended another 9 girls being trafficked. January 25, 2020 In "News"