Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the All Progressives Party (APC) governorship candidate in Edo, on Thursday, called for violence-free campaigns, ahead of the Sept. 19 election, even as he felicitated Gov. Godwin Obaseki on his 63rd birthday. Ize-Iyamu in a statement made available to the Newsmen in Benin, wished Obaseki God’s abundant blessings on his new age. “By divine coincidence, we will be contesting again on different political platforms for the opportunity to lead our people and serve the state as governor. DONT MISS THIS:  “God appears to have arranged musical chairs for both of us, bringing me to APC, which I helped to form and under which you contested in 2016, and taking you to PDP, where I previously contested and where you have now expressed your preference. “Let the will of God be done and I want to assure you that my wish is that we have campaigns devoid of rancour and violence. “Edo people need a governor that will help to unify the state, douse the political tension and focus completely on the development of the state. “As leaders, you and I, including other aspirants, have the opportunity and responsibility to make things better and ensure that our contest is marked by democratic values that drive high standards of behaviour,” he said. NAN Vanguard Nigeria News Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the All Progressives Party (APC) governorship candidate in Edo, on Thursday, called for violence-free campaigns, ahead of the Sept. 19 election, even as he felicitated Gov. Godwin Obaseki on his 63rd birthday. July 2, 2020 In "News" Dr Blessing Agbomhere, a chieftain of All Progressives Party (APC) in Edo, has urged Gov. Godwin Obaseki to receive former governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Osagie Ize-Iyamu who defected to APC with open hands. February 3, 2020 In "Politics" It was another setback for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State on Friday as the governorship election petition tribunal, sitting in Benin-City, threw away the suit filed by its candidate in the September 28, 2016 election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Ize-Iyamu had run to the court to contest the… April 16, 2017 In "News"