In commemoration of the National Diaspora Day, Ecobank Nigeria has stated that it is offering zero fees for money transfers on the Rapidtransfer App from now till the 31st of October 2020. The Federal Government has set aside July 25 of every year as the National Diaspora Day in recognition of the contributions of Nigerians living outside the country towards the development of their homeland.  Rapidtransfer is Ecobank’s proprietary money transfer service which enables users send funds across borders, affordably and instantly. The Rapidtransfer app is available for use by Ecobank and non-Ecobank customers. Cash can be received directly into the recipient’s account or as cash at any Ecobank branch or agent location.  Announcing this in Lagos, Korede Demola-Adeniyi, Head, Consumer Banking, Ecobank Nigeria, said the decision to waive charges underscores the bank’s commitment to helping Nigerians abroad remit money home to their loved ones without placing an additional burden of charges on them, especially at this period of economic downturn across the world. She noted that the bank appreciates the contributions of Nigerians in the diaspora to the development of the country and is committed to ensuring that their transfers reach home instantly and affordably.  In addition, she stated that the Rapidtransfer app delivers value to both the sender and receiver. In her words, “our rates on the app are very competitive ensuring that both the sender and receiver get value for their money. The app also allows you see the exchange rate before your transaction is consummated, thereby providing a great level of transparency. The entire money sent reaches home, no hidden charges.”  The Rapidtransfer app was introduced in 2018 as a game changer for remittances to Africa. The exchange rates are very attractive, and the service is open to Ecobank and non-Ecobank customers. Some of the interesting features of the app include easy navigation and multi-lingual capabilities. The Rapidtransfer app is available on the Google Play Store and App Store. In the spirit of the season, Ecobank Nigeria has called on Nigerians in diaspora to embrace the benefits of Ecobank’s Rapidtransfer app when sending money to their loved ones back home this festive season. The service the bank said is open to Ecobank and non-Ecobank customers. December 22, 2018 In "Business" Ecobank Nigeria has introduced zero fees for all transfers done into Nigeria on its newly launched Rapidtransfer app. November 7, 2018 In "Business" The Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan has stated that Africa is the strategy of Ecobank. Akinwuntan who was speaking in commemoration of Africa Day 2019 noted that Ecobank’s “approach to doing business in Africa is to create a united and integrated brand and platform that reflects the values of… May 24, 2019 In "News"