The son of Mali’s embattled President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, a target of popular anger in the fragile West African state, resigned as chair of the parliament’s defence committee on Monday. Karim Keita left the role as the government faces a growing protest movement, sparked by the outcome of parliamentary elections in March and April, but whose underlying causes include discontent over its handling of Mali’s jihadist insurgency. Economic woes and perceived government corruption have also fuelled public anger. A protest in the capital Bamako on Friday turned violent after protesters blocked bridges and attacked the parliament building. Clashes persisted over the weekend and through Monday, with the protesters calling on President Boubacar to resign. Eleven people have died and 124 have been injured since the unrest began, according to staff at a major hospital. Karim Keita has been another target of protesters’ anger over suspicions he leads a playboy lifestyle. Recently leaked videos — which AFP could not independently verify — appear to show him enjoying himself at a party aboard a luxury yacht, for example, causing a scandal in the impoverished country of some 19 million people. On Monday, Keita said in a statement that he would resign as parliamentary defence committee chair because he no longer wants to figure in arguments raised by political opponents. He will continue to work as an MP, however. New Malian Prime Minister Boubou Cisse on Saturday vowed to rapidly form a government “open to facing the challenges of the day”. Mali has struggled to contain a jihadist insurgency that first emerged in the north in 2012 before spreading to the centre of the country. Thousands of soldiers and civilians have been killed and hundreds of thousands of people have been forced to flee their homes. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. A mass protest in Mali against President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita descended into violence on Friday as protesters blocked main thoroughfares, attacked the parliament and stormed the premises of a state broadcaster. One person was killed during the protest in the capital Bamako, officials said. The protest, organised by a new… July 11, 2020 In "News" Protesters in Mali's capital Bamako blocked two of the city's main bridges and hurled stones at the parliament Friday, AFP journalists said, during a protest against President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita. Thousands gathered in a central square to demand the president resign over the country's long-running jihadist conflict and economic woes. They… July 11, 2020 In "Foreign" Mali's embattled President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita announced the dissolution of the constitutional court on Saturday in an attempt to calm major civil unrest in the vulnerable African country. Mali's constitutional court has been at the centre of controversy for months since it overturned provisional results for a parliamentary poll, triggering… July 12, 2020 In "Foreign"