A lawyer and human rights activist, Kabir Akingbolu, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately set up a probe panel to look into several allegations of abuse of office, corruption and stealing, levelled against the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami. In a letter to the president, dated July 17, Akingbolu noted that it would amount to hypocrisy for the government to probe percieved corrupt persons but ignores very serious allegation of corruption and abuse of office against the chief law officer of the country. Itemising some of the grave allegations for which he insists Malami must be investigated, Akingbolu said, “For ease of reference, I hereby catalogue some of (Malami) numerous abnormal deeds and abuse of office as follows: “In 2018, despite the fact that various lawyers had worked and completed all the modalities to recovering the Abacha loot from the U.S.A; Malami ensured the removal or deduction of 16.4. Million Dollars under the bogus concept of 10% commission for himself through his cronies. “Everybody in Nigeria cried as much of the U.S Attorney who acted on behalf of Nigeria in respect of the money, but our A.G.F turned a deaf hear and took the money. “In 2019, Malami withdrew 25billion Naira criminal charge against Senator Danjuma Goje without any justification. “In June 2020, Malami withdrew criminal charges against killer soldiers who were charged along with Wadume, a dreaded kidnapper and an armed robber. “Continuous act of giving reckless advice to the Federal Government to disobey court orders, which necessitated the abnormal detention of Omoyele Sowore, El Zakzaky, Sambo Dasuki and a host of others after competent courts have ordered their release which acts he, unfortunately, defended vehemently before the Senate when he went for second screening. “He also allegedly owns the underlisted properties: A multimillion naira sprawling building Rayhaan Hotels worth about 500million naira, located at opposite Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, Zoria Road, Kano State. “Another property worth about 600million naira located at Ahmadu Bello Way, Nasarawa GRA, Kano. “A newly constructed school located at the back of Nitel at Gesse Phase 1, Birni Kebbi worth about 700million. “A multimillion naira property built by Malami for his son located at Gesse Phase II in Birni Kabbi worth over 400million. “A mansion known as Azbir Arena built by malami for his second son, Azbir located 200metres away from Malami brother’s mansion. “Azbir Arena an entertainment Centre worth over 3Billion, with a big plaza and kids playing centre and Hotel. “Malami used the official letterhead of the Federal Ministry of Justice to invite guests to his son’s wedding as if it was a state-sponsored event. “He aided his son at his wedding party reception to deface the naira to embarrass the nation and this act is against section 21(1) and (3) of the Central Bank Act, 2007 which provides: “This government will have no justification or excuse if it fails to suspend or dismiss Mr Malami who had expressly admitted and or confessed to the selling of seized crude oil under questionable circumstances when he knew he had no power to do so. “Thus, if this government decided to keep mum by treating Malami with kid gloves or a sacred cow, the government should forget its anti-corruption war song and stop deceiving Nigerians and the whole world.” Akingbolu also threatened to file for Mandamus to compel the Inspector General of Police to perform his statutory duties if the government refuse to probe the AGF. He also vowed to petition international human rights organisations over the matter. Vanguard News Nigeria. Embattled Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, was yesterday confronted with more allegations. July 9, 2020 In "News" Suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic & Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, was yesterday granted bail by the Justice Ayo Salami-led Presidential panel investigating allegations levelled against him by the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN. July 16, 2020 In "News" Ikechukwu Nnochiri - Abuja The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), on Friday, dismissed reports that he tried to dissuade President Muhammadu Buhari from prosecuting some persons fingered in the $1.1billion Malabu oil deal. The AGF, in a statement issued by his media aide,… February 1, 2020 In "News"