Technology giant, IBM Corporation has appointed Angela Kyerematen-Jimoh Regional Head for North, East and West Africa where she will be responsible for IBM operations in over 40 countries in Africa including Morocco, Nigeria, Kenya, Senegal, Uganda, Ghana and Tunisia. Before her appointment, Ms. Kyerematen-Jimoh was Chief of Staff to the Senior Vice President in charge of Global Markets and Sales in IBM’s corporate headquarters in New York. Ms. Kyerematen-Jimoh, who was previously Country Manager for Ghana joined IBM in 2011 as Marketing Manager for the West Africa Market Segment and rose through the ranks to become the Strategy Leader for Central East and West Africa. Prior to joining IBM, Ms. Kyerematen-Jimoh worked in banking for UBS Investment Bank & ABN AMRO in London and GT Bank Ghana. Chris Kirubi, East Africa Business Mogul and Founder of Centum Investment, said: “I am exceptionally proud of Angela. Her dedication and commitment to her work is unwavering. “She has all our support and I know she will make this a huge success story. We welcome her back to Africa.” Ms. Halima Aliko Dangote, Executive Director of Dangote Industries commented noted that “this is indeed an inspiring story for our continent to have a woman lead this very important region and we look forward to her making great strides in this role.” Ms. Kyerematen-Jimoh’s appointment marks another first in her career. She was IBM’s first female country head and becomes the first woman and first African to be appointed Regional Head in Africa. She has been named one of Africa’s most influential women by Avance Media and her awards include the US African Women Forum’s Global Impact Leadership Award and the prestigious African Achievers Awards for Excellence in Business. A mother of two boys, Ms. Kyerematen-Jimoh is an alumna of Harvard Business School. Vanguard The African Achievers Awards in its 8th edition will hold at the United Kingdom House of Parliament on July 5, 2018. The prestigious award that recognises influential personalities of African descent will be hosted by Rt. Hon. Diane Abbott, current Shadow Home Secretary, United Kingdom, and to be chaired by… June 22, 2018 In "The Arts" While the Nigerian IT sector has continued to be the toast of international vendors, the International Business Machine (IBM) president and CEO, Ms Ginni Rometty during her recent working visit to the country has disclosed the company intentions for ICT development and support in Africa especially Nigeria. October 2, 2013 In "Technology" Multinaltional technology and consulting corporation, International Business Machine (IBM) while expanding local reach  has predicted that cloud technology adoption in Nigeria is expected to grow  to about 80 percent by 2015. February 12, 2014 In "Technology"