President Muhammadu Buhari has commended a Nigerian doctorate student in University of Tsukuba, Japan, Mr Ikenna Nweke, who returned a missing wallet with huge sums of money to the police, and also turned down offer of a percentage by the authorities. The president made the commendation in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Saturday. President Buhari saluted Nweke for projecting the values of honesty, integrity and contentment that should be the hallmark of a people. According to him, the good virtues and propriety are the hallmark of every culture in Nigeria, while crimes and criminalities are exceptions. The president believed Nweke’s behaviour, coming at a period that the country needed a positive spotlight and close-up on its real values, ”clearly signposts what should hold the nation together, inspired by solid foundations laid by most families, religious bodies and communities for success in life.” He wished Nweke all the best in his studies and work as a teaching assistant in same university. He urged all Nigerians, home and abroad, to keep celebrating the age-old, irreplaceable attributes of honesty and decorum, and shun the microwaved, get-rich-quick tendencies that bring individual and collective shame. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:  Vanguard News A  chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC,  in Enugu, Chief Gbazuagu Nweke Gbazuagau , yesterday, said that the recovery and return of President Muhammadu Buhari is for Nigerians to know that “God still has a good plan for them and for the President to continue his good leadership in… August 23, 2017 In "News" Against the incessant vandalization of petroleum pipelines installations across the country, a former acting commandant general of Nigeria security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC has said that until the sponsors of the vandals are brought to book there could be no respite as he praised the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporate,NNPC… July 9, 2020 In "News" Pro Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, Professor Anya O. Anya, on Tuesday, advised President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently consider the implementation of the report of the 2014 National Conference, which was convened by former President Goodluck Jonathan. August 18, 2015 In "News"