PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has assured the international community and Nigerians that the latest cowardly attack on a UN helicopter which claimed the lives of two people, including a five-year-old baby, would not go without severe consequences. President Buhari, who condemned what he called “the dastardly attack on UN aid helicopter in the Northeast on Saturday by the Boko Haram terrorists said the group was on the back foot and their increasing attacks on innocent civilians, including UN humanitarian workers, was part of their desperation to prove that they are strong in order to cover up their dwindling fortunes. In a statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja last night, the President said that the Boko Haram elements have been under intense pressure from the military. According to the President, “This latest cowardly attack on the UN humanitarian helicopter is yet another desperate rearguard action by the Boko Haram terrorists who have been under intense pressure from the Nigerian military. “Let me reassure the international community and Nigerians that this latest cowardly attack on a UN helicopter which claimed the lives of two people, including a five-year-old baby, would not go without severe consequences. “Boko Haram terrorists are clearly on the back foot and their increasing attacks on innocent civilians, including UN humanitarian workers, was part of their desperation to prove that they are strong in order to cover up their dwindling fortunes.” President Buhari further said that “the security of foreigners and Nigerians remain the top priority of this administration, and we shall leave no stone unturned until we eliminate these remorseless enemies of humanity.” He underscored the need for all humanitarian and other aid workers in the region to, at all times, properly coordinate movements — air or land, with the Theatre Commander and other military authorities. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:  Vanguard News ...Condemns Boko Haram attack By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has assured the international community and Nigerians that the latest cowardly attack on a UN helicopter which claimed the lives of two people, including a five-year-old baby, would not go without severe consequences. President Buhari, who condemned what… July 6, 2020 In "News" Nigeria's fight against the Boko Haram jihadist group was expected to top the agenda in talks Monday between President Donald Trump and Nigeria's Muhammadu Buhari, leader of Africa's most populous and wealthiest country. April 30, 2018 In "News" Troops of 3 Division of the Nigerian Army and officials of the Department of State Services, DSS, have arrested the mastermind of the coordinated bombings in Jos, Plateau State and Zaria, Kaduna State on Sunday and Tuesday, respectively. July 9, 2015 In "News"