 ABUJA- As the country joins the global community to mark the 2020 Nelson Mandela Day, the National Human Rights Commission, NHRC, has urged the government, Private enterprises and Civil Society Organizatios to do more in ensuring equality and social justice for everyone, especially at this critical time of COVID-19 pandemic.  The Executive Secretary of the Commission, Tony Ojukwu, in a statement on Sunday, said Nigerians should make renewed commitment to uphold legacies left behind by the human Rights defender and freedom fighter, Nelson Mandela, who he noted worked throughout his lifetime for the promotion and protection of human rights.  He described Mandela as an advocate of reconciliation and gender equality who continuously fought for the rights of the minorities and vulnerable groups including promotion of social justice and eradication of poverty.   Ojukwu stressed the need for both the government and the private sector to push for economic and social empowerment of the less privileged Nigerians now that the COVID-19 is ravaging the economy and making life unbearable for the ordinary Nigerian.  He said direct action was needed more than before, to achieve impactful and lasting changes in inequality and social injustice.  According to him, this could be done through direct investment and commitment to enforce diversity by ensuring bold action in creating opportunity at all levels across all the sectors of the society.  Although he commended the government for the N-Power programme and the initiative to provide job opportunities in all the 774 Local Government Areas in Nigeria, Ojukwu emphasized fairness and adherence to the principle of social justice in providing such opportunities which according to him will go a long way to eradicate poverty  especially among the people in the rural areas.  Besides, the NHRC boss urged the government to use the opportunity of the celebration to reaffirm its commitment to do more in the area of custodial center reforms, by promoting humane condition of the custodial centers, creating awareness about prisoners being a continuous part of the society and the value of work of the custodial officers as a social service of particular importance.  Ojukwu recalled that the revised United Nations Standard Minimum Rule for Treatment of Prisoners which is today known as the Nelson Mandela Rules, is to honour the legacy of the man who spent 27 years in harsh prison conditions.  He noted that the COVID-19 has been instrumental to the release of some prisoners so as to decongest the prison in order to avoid overcrowding which can trigger the rapid spread of the disease.  “There is still more to be done to drastically reduce the number of awaiting trial inmates whose number outweighs the number of convicted prisoners in our country”.  “This goes to tell that the services in our prisons are overstretched thus posing a question of compliance with the Mandela Rules to which Nigeria is a signatory” Ojukwu added.  He called for evidence led investigation and policing to reduce detention for investigations and encourage non custodial investigation methods, accelerated hearing of awaiting trial cases, non-custodian sentencing for petty crimes, adequate provision of vehicles to convey prisoners to court, reasonable bail conditions to enable prompt intervention for bailing suspects.  “Nelson Mandela international day is celebrated annually on the 18th of July in honour of Nelson Mandela.  “It reminds us that everyone has the ability to change the world for the better and we can do the same to reduce inequality and promote social justice in Nigeria”, the statement added.  The late President Nelson Mandela of South Africa remains a household name globally because of his numerous outstanding achievements, impacts and legacies. July 23, 2019 In "News" GLOBAL leaders, who were at the memorial ceremony for former South African President, Nelson Mandela, yesterday in Soweto, were unanimous in their tributes to the late anti-Apartheid hero, who they described as a gift to humanity. The United States President, Mr. Barack Obama, described Mandela as a giant of history.… December 11, 2013 In "News" As millions of people in South Africa and other parts of the world mourn the death of Nelson Mandela, 95, the South African President, Jacob Zuma, yesterday announced that a state funeral would be held for Mandela on Sunday, December 15, followed by internment at Qunu in Eastern Cape province… December 7, 2013 In "Headlines"