THE Chief Judge of Ondo State, Justice Olanrewaju Akeredolu has rejected the move by the state House of Assembly to impeach the defected deputy governor of the state, Hon Alfred Agboola Ajayi. Justice Akeredolu’s  rejection was contained in her response to the House of Assembly letter directing her to constitute a seven-man impeachment panel to probe allegations of gross misconduct levelled against the state’s deputy governor. The Chief Judge in her response rejected the request on the ground that the two-third majority required by the 1999 constitution for setting up of such a probe panel was not formed in the house of Assembly and that the matter was subjudiced. The House of Assembly letter was signed by the Speaker Rt Hon Bamidele Oloyelogun on behalf of the members. Only 14 out of the 26 members of the Assembly signed the impeachment notice while nine other members dissociating themselves from the impeachment plot. The nine members have also written a letter to the Chief Judge of the state,  dissociating themselves from the ongoing plans to impeach the deputy governor of the state. Recall that the deputy governor had equally approached the Federal High Court to halt his planned impeachment. However,  Justice Akeredolu in her letter with reference number CROD/1123/V.3/54  titled ‘Re: Request to set up seven-man panel pursuant to section 188(5) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) said “In view of  foregoing, the Honourable members of the House of the Assembly have not completed the constitutional process that will lead your good self to invite my humble self to set up a panel of seven to investigate allegations of gross misconduct as stipulated in the constitution.” The letter added that “Furthermore, I wish to bring a letter which I received earlier today from Kayode Olatoke, SAN which  tells me clearly that the matter of impeachment of Hon. Alfred Agboola Ajayi, the Deputy Governor is subjudice. Vanguard By Dayo Johnson - Akure The Chief Judge of Ondo State, Justice Olanrewaju Akeredolu, has rejected the move by the state House of Assembly to impeach the defected deputy governor. Justice Akeredolu's rejection was contained in a letter she wrote to the House of Assembly in response to a directive… July 10, 2020 In "Politics" THE Ondo State House of Assembly, yesterday, directed the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Olarenwaju Akeredolu, to set up a seven-man panel to investigate allegations of gross misconduct levelled against the Deputy Governor, Mr. Agboola Ajayi. July 10, 2020 In "News" Akure—THE process that may end in the impeachment of the Ondo State Deputy Governor, Alhaji Ali Olanusi, kicked off yesterday as a seven-member probe panel was constituted by the state Chief Judge, Justice Olaseinde Kumuyi. April 24, 2015 In "News"