Japanese officials have formally asked the US to extradite two Americans accused of helping ex-Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn carry out his action-movie escape from Tokyo. Japan submitted its requests for the extradition of former Green Beret Michael Taylor and his son Peter to the US State Department pursuant to the two nations’ extradition treaty, federal prosecutors said in a Thursday court filing. The disclosure came more than a month after the feds nabbed the Taylors in May. Tokyo prosecutors had issued arrest warrants for the father-son duo, who allegedly helped execute an elaborate December caper to get Ghosn to Lebanon that involved stuffing the former auto exec into an audio equipment box. Federal prosecutors said they would provide copies of Japan’s extradition requests to the Taylors’ lawyers, but the documents did not appear in federal court filings Friday morning. The State Department referred questions to the Department of Justice, which did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Neither the Japanese embassy nor an attorney for the Taylors immediately replied to emails seeking comment. The requests came amid a legal battle between the feds and the Taylors’ lawyers over whether to quash the warrants for their arrests. The pair’s legal team has argued that their alleged role in Ghosn’s escape did not amount to an actual crime in Japan, a claim prosecutors say relies on a “flawed” interpretation of Japanese law. At the time of his escape, Ghosn, 66, was out on bail in Tokyo while awaiting trial for allegedly under-reporting $80 million in compensation earnings and siphoning off company cash for his own use. He has denied the allegations and said he fled “persecution.” NY Post Vanguard US judge said on Friday two Massachusetts men pose too great of a risk of flight to be released on bail given “spectacular” allegations that they helped orchestrate former Nissan Motor Chairman Carlos Ghosn’s escape from Japan. Magistrate Judge Donald Cabell said US Army Special Forces veteran Michael Taylor and… July 13, 2020 In "Sports" Japanese authorities on Thursday issued arrest warrants for a former U.S. Special Forces soldier and two other men on suspicion of smuggling former Nissan Motor Co boss Carlos Ghosn out of Japan. “Warrants were issued for former U.S. Green Beret Michael Taylor and two other men, George-Antoine Zayek and Peter… January 30, 2020 In "Foreign" A couple of Americans with names matching private security contractors, including a former US Green Beret who has served time behind bars, accompanied fugitive Carlos Ghosn out of Japan while he was awaiting trial for financial crimes, according to a new report. Ghosn — who stunned the world with his… January 6, 2020 In "News"