A criminal case against FIFA president Gianni Infantino was opened on Thursday by a Swiss special prosecutor. The case is connected to a meeting Infantino had with the Swiss attorney general. The special prosecutor, Stefan Keller, closed an investigation into two complaints involving Infantino and Swiss attorney general Michael Lauber after turning up “elements that make up reprehensible behaviour.” Lauber announced his resignation last week. Keller opened a criminal case against Infantino as well as Valais prosecutor Rinaldo Arnold and has sought authorisation to open a legal case against Lauber, too, according to a statement from the Swiss authority overseeing the federal prosecutors office. Keller, a legal expert named to the post of special prosecutor on June 29, found that possible infractions included abuse of public office, breach of official secrecy, “assisting offenders” and “incitement to these acts,” the supervisory authority for the office of the attorney general said in its statement, adding other criminal acts and proceedings could also be considered. Suspects in such cases benefit from a presumption of innocence in Switzerland until legal proceedings are completed. Lauber offered to resign on Friday only minutes before a federal court upheld allegations that he had lied about a meeting he had with Infantino during a sprawling investigation into corruption in football. It came in response to Lauber’s appeal against being disciplined in March for misconduct. The internal disciplinary case against Lauber focused on a meeting he had with Infantino in June 2017 at a hotel in Bern, at which the prosecutor took no notes. They later both said they could not recall their discussion at what was their third meeting in a 15-month period. “On the basis of general life experience, such a case of collective amnesia is an aberration,” the federal court ruling said last week. Lauber is set to join former FIFA president Sepp Blatter and former UEFA president Michel Platini as senior officials in Switzerland who lost their jobs because of an investigation that began in November 2014. Sky Sports Vanguard A lawyer friend of FIFA chief Gianni Infantino met with Swiss public prosecutor Michael Lauber in 2015 to find out if Infantino, who was planning to run for the FIFA presidency, was the target of a corruption investigation, French daily Le Monde reported on Sunday. The newspaper said that the… March 8, 2020 In "Sports" FIFA president Gianni Infantino is running unopposed in his bid for a second term as the head of world football's governing body, but that does not mean everyone approves of his job performance. May 29, 2019 In "News" Disgraced former FIFA president Sepp Blatter called Wednesday for the ethics body of world football's governing body to investigate his successor Gianni Infantino. November 21, 2018 In "Sports"