ABUJA: The All Progressives Congress APC has asked the opposition Peoples Democratic Party PDP to allow it to focus its attention on correcting the 16-year mistakes of the erstwhile ruling party. APC gave the charge in a statement issued Wednesday night and signed by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yekini Nabena.  The statement reads; “We are not oblivious of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP rehearsed, repeated and unintelligent statements on the ongoing probes of corruption allegations in the polity. “The position of the All Progressives Congress APC is unchanged. Clearly, President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration’s fight against corruption is total, unsparing and there are no sacred cows. As with all institutions of government, we must continue to entrench transparency and accountability in their operations.  “For the PDP that institutionalized a culture of corruption in our national life, the least they can do is allow the current administration right the PDP’s wrongs and restore our institutions to a culture of probity – definitely a tall order going by the PDP’s well-known and ignoble antecedents”. Vanguard Following a call by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP to the National Assembly to initiate an impeachment process against President Muhammadu Buhari, the All Progressives Congress, APC has told the PDP that Nigeria was not a banana republic. January 15, 2016 In "News" Days after the opposition Peoples Democratic Party PDP accused the ruling All Progressives Congress APC of being the originator of fake news in Nigeria and elevating it as a statecraft, the APC has now reacted, accusing the PDP of behaving like a "crybaby", and spewing falsehoods daily. November 14, 2018 In "News" The ruling All Progressives Congress APC said the Peoples Democratic Party PDP and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar has continued to whine over the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria CJN, Walter Onnoghen because the opposition party had planned to use the top jurist to get back to power… January 28, 2019 In "Politics"