Former France attacker Franck Ribery pledged his future to Fiorentina on Thursday despite raising doubts over staying with the club after a burglary at his Florence home over the weekend. Ribery, 37, who joined the Serie A side from Bayern Munich last August, said on Sunday he questioned how he could feel safe in the city after his wife lost precious jewellery amongst other items in the break-in. In responding to an Instagram post by the Italian outfit’s ex-goalkeeper Sebastien Frey, Ribery said he would remain at the Artemio Franchi. Frey had said his brother would choose against leaving the side. “My brother, thanks very much. You know me, you know where I come from, I’m not the type to go back on my words. I said it, I do it. Pleasing everybody is pleasing nobody,” Ribery commented. “So as I wait, my boots are laced up, and I have the real fans of the club, a city which counts on me. The rest matters little. I signed for the real Viola. Viola forever,” he added. VANGUARD By Abimbola Oluyede Nigerians are complex people to lead. Sometimes, authorities struggle to understand where the people are displeased, excited or unexcited by policies or programmes. What seems to gain currency in the Nigerian market in political and social engagements, however, is to either hate the leader or disparage whatever… June 28, 2020 In "Viewpoint" The N-Power Nationwide Beneficiaries Forum has lauded the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Farouq, for her transparent, accountable and propitious handling of the scheme. In a statement co-signed by President Dr Okwu Audu James and Secretary-General, Comrade Unde Saaember Emmanuel, on Monday, the forum vowed to expose "ungrateful… June 11, 2020 In "News" Policy experts in Nigeria have hailed the introduction and ongoing registration of the N- Power Batch 'C' Scheme, saying it is a welcome development for the realisation of President Muhammadu Buhari's agenda for the positive transformation of the Nigerian economy through youth empowerment. The experts who spoke at a virtual… June 29, 2020 In "News"