The World Bank has appointed a another Vice President for the Sub-Saharan Africa Region. The region’s portfolio was formally managed by one Vice president, a position occupied by Mr. Hafez Ghanem, an Egyptian and French national. With the new appointees announced, in Washington, yesterday, Mr. Ousmane Diagana became the second VP with responsibility for Central and Western Africa, while Mr. Ghanem now oversees Eastern and Southern Africa affairs. The bank said that the appointment of two VP for the was , “a sign of its strong commitment to Africa” while announcing that it would lend $50 billion to the countries on the continent, this year. “This year the World Bank is expected to lend about $50 billion to 48 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa – significantly more than any other Region and making up about one-third of the World Bank’s entire portfolio. “These financing volumes are almost double what the region delivered ten years ago. The Bank’s portfolio includes projects and programs in areas such as agriculture, trade and transport, energy, education, health, water and sanitation. Furthermore, the growth in financing to fragile states has been even higher with about two-thirds of World Bank financing to fragile states happening in Africa.” According to the bank, the creation of an additional Vice Presidency Unit is part of the its continuous efforts to align resources with priorities and that it would help drive the reforms and policies needed to achieve sustained and broad-based growth, alleviate poverty and raise living standards for people on the continent. “Our commitment to Africa gets stronger every day, and I am thrilled to work alongside Ousmane Diagana to deliver even more resources to the people who need them the most,” said Mr.  Ghanem, adding, “We are two Vice Presidents, but we see Africa as one, and will continue sharing lessons, expertise, and ideas across the continent.” Also commenting on the development, Mr. Diagana said, “I am honoured to lead the bank’s efforts in West and Central Africa, with a strong focus on innovation, impact, and transformation.” Vanguard The World Bank Group says Coronavirus (COVID-19), is taking Sub-Saharan Africa towards its first recession in 25 Years. The bank stated this in a statement released on Thursday. It explained that growth in Sub-Saharan Africa had been significantly impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak, and was predicted to fall sharply from… April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The World Bank Group and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), have promised to continue to support Nigeria in bridging its infrastructure gap. September 23, 2019 In "Business" The World Bank has forecasted that sub-Saharan Africa will be pushed into recession in 2020 with Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contracting by up to 5.1 percent due to the ravaging COVID-19 outbreak. The bank also predicted a sharp drop in the GDP of Nigeria, Angola, and South Africa, the region’s… April 10, 2020 In "Business"