 Nigel Pearson has expressed his regret at not being able to finish the job he started at Watford after he was sacked by the relegation-threatened Premier League club. The Hornets announced on Sunday that Pearson had left the club with immediate effect with two games of the season remaining and top-flight status not yet secured. In a post on his official Twitter account on Monday, the 56-year-old said: “I’ve been overwhelmed by the well wishes I’ve received from Watford supporters and the football community. Thank you all for your kind messages. “Although not able to finish the task I was brought in to achieve, I wish Watford all the best for their final two games. Cheers, Nige.” Pearson was appointed head coach in December last year — the club’s third permanent boss of the season after Javi Gracia and Quique Sanchez Flores — with Watford sitting bottom of the table and seven points from safety. They are currently in 17th place, three points clear of the bottom three, but with Manchester City and Arsenal to play, face an anxious final week of the campaign. Hayden Mullins has been asked to take up the reins, as he did briefly following Flores’ departure, as the search for a replacement gets under way. VANGUARD Watford have sacked manager Nigel Pearson with just two games left in their fight for Premier League survival, according to British media reports on Sunday. Pearson, 56, has been axed by Watford's technical director Filippo Giraldi ahead of a decisive final week of the Premier League. Watford are 17th in… July 19, 2020 In "News" Newly appointed Barcelona coach, Quique Sentien could have missed the opportunity of managing the Catalan giants, after interviewing for the role as Watford boss in December. The Premier League club was rooted to the bottom of the log under Quique Sanchez Flores, and his sacking meant that the Pozzo family… January 15, 2020 In "Sports" Watford manager Nigel Pearson warned his side of the perils of relegation if they do not stop "gifting" points away after a 3-1 home defeat by Southampton on Sunday. Danny Ings produced two fine finishes to further his case for the Premier League Golden Boot as Saints realistically secured their… June 28, 2020 In "Sports"