An estimated 15.4 million cases of acute malnutrition in children under the ages of five are expected in West and Central Africa this year, the United Nations Children’s Funds, UNICEF, and the United Nations World Food Programme, WFP, have alerted. The duo also warned that one-third of them would be down with its most severe form if adequate measures are not put in place now. The new estimate, according to them represents a 20 per cent increase from earlier estimates, in January 2020. The analysis contained in the combined impact of food insecurity and COVID-19 on acute malnutrition in 19 countries of the region, noted that “Conflict and armed violence have led to massive population displacements and drastically limited access to basic social services, leading child malnutrition to increase to unprecedented levels. “The coronavirus disease is exacerbating fragile contexts in West and Central Africa, such as in the Sahel region across Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and Senegal, which were already stricken with food insecurity and malnutrition. “Before the COVID-19 pandemic, 4.5 million cases were anticipated to suffer from acute malnutrition in 2020, in these 6 countries. Today, with growing insecurity and COVID-19, that number has jumped to almost 5.4 million.,” the report noted. Speaking on the report, UNICEF Regional Director for West and Central Africa, Marie-Pierre Poirier, said: “Children suffering from severe acute malnutrition are at higher risk of COVID-19-related complications. Whereas, good nutrition for children, starting from their early days, protects them against illnesses and infections, and supports their recovery when they become ill. “Ensuring the continuity of preventive and lifesaving health and nutrition services, building shock-responsive social protection systems, protecting livelihoods and supporting families’ access to water, hygiene and healthy food are critical for child survival and long-term development,” Poirier Several factors threaten the nutritional status of children under five in West and Central Africa. These include household food insecurity, poor maternal nutrition, and infant feeding practices, conflicts and armed violence, population displacement, high levels of childhood illnesses, and water-borne diseases such as diarrhea, fragile health systems, poor access to clean water and sanitation, and chronic poverty. The UN also added that COVID-19 pandemic containment measures have led to disruptions in food production and distribution, in health and humanitarian supply chains, as well as a slow-down of economic activities. The pandemic has had indirect negative impacts on food systems, households’ income and food security, and the provision of treatment against malnutrition. This makes it more difficult for populations to maintain healthy diets, optimal infant, and young child feeding practices and hinders their access to essential nutrition services. Speaking, WFP Regional Director for West and Central Africa, Chris Nikoi, said: “Thousands of families will be unable to provide their children with the nutritious food needed for their proper growth and development. “We must work together to improve access to nutritious foods and ensure that there are strong preventive actions that protect children from falling into the vicious trap of malnutrition and sickness.” WFP and UNICEF are working with governments and partners to ensure the continuation of essential services. Together, they deliver an integrated package of care focused on the prevention and treatment of acute malnutrition and empower communities for the provision of basic services. In northern Mali, for example, WFP and UNICEF are joining their efforts and resources to treat and prevent maternally and child malnutrition and reinforce good feeding practices. This includes the screening of children for malnutrition. The screening is part of an initiative that promotes early detection of malnutrition in children by mothers and families, using a Mid Upper Arm Circumference (MUAC) screening tape. In addition, it allows for the referral of moderate and severe acute malnutrition cases to health facilities, supported by both agencies. Prevention activities include sensitization sessions on infant and young child feeding practices, supported by UNICEF and complemented by the provision of vouchers to women to exchange for nutritious foods available in the market, facilitated by WFP. Vanguard Only $5 is needed to prevent malnutrition in a child while a total of $71 is needed to treat each malnourished child May 23, 2017 In "Health" By Chioma Obinna Imagine being caught in between two dangerous situations. Imagine not being able to take your child to hospital because you have no money in your pocket. Imagine living in fear because of the activities of bandits. Imagine losing your ancestral home. Imagine living in an internally displaced… May 10, 2020 In "News" The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) said on Tuesday at least 1,115 children have died from acute malnutrition in Borno State between January and December last year. The UNICEF Nutrition Sector Coordinator, Mr. Simon Karanja, disclosed this at the inauguration of the Borno Steering Committee on Food and Nutrition in… February 11, 2020 In "News"