Impediments by truck drivers will affect free flow of traffic on alternative routes as the Third Mainland Bridge in Lagos is partially closed, a state official has said. Mr Olajide Oduyoye, General Manager, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), gave the warning, yesterday, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. Oduyoye spoke to NAN barely 24 hours after partial closure of the bridge for repairs. He gave an update on the traffic situation in Lagos on the first day of the partial closure of the bridge. NAN reported that the partial closure of the major access bridge into Lagos Island for six-month took effect at midnight on Friday. The official said that trucks enroute Apapa ports parked on Ijora-Olopa and Costain area were impeding traffic for motorists desiring to connect Eko and Carter bridges. The LASTMA boss said: “The issues at the moment are trailers parked by Ijora Olopa-Costain – that is a serious link between Carter Bridge and Eko Bridge – which is affecting traffic. “It is imperative those trucks are not parked there. “When you now have two trailers breaking down close to each other, it gets worse. “Our officers are on ground to manage the traffic as much as they can within the circumstances.” The general manager said that enforcement of proper parking by trucks should be a concern of all stakeholders. “If we sit down and depend only on LASTMA, it will not be easy and can create a chaotic situation,” he said. The LASTMA boss noted that impediments by trucks were not new to Lagos residents as they had been going on for long. “It requires zeal and serious input from the police,” he added. Oduyoye said that LASTMA desired to reduce harassment and assaults on its officers by truck drivers. According to him, truck drivers usually resist control; hence, the need for the police to come in and prevent chaotic situations. He said that priority had been given to traffic management in the morning peak period inward Lagos Island from mainland and in the afternoon, outward Island to mainland, in the partial closure arrangement. Oduyoye noted that some drivers were getting confused about diversion around Ilubinrin area, and were driving against traffic. He urged motorists not to ignore road signs. Vanguard Impediments by truck drivers will affect free flow of traffic on alternative routes as the Third Mainland Bridge in Lagos is partially closed, a state official has said. Mr Olajide Oduyoye, General Manager, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), gave the warning on Saturday in an interview with the News… July 26, 2020 In "News" THE temporary closure of the Third Mainland Bridge to allow for a three-day investigative maintenance test prior to its repair began last night with strong indications that serious hardship awaits motorists and other road users in Lagos. Reason: Most of the alternative routes announced by the Lagos State Government are… August 24, 2018 In "Headlines" ...Traffic robbers upsurge on Third Mainland Bridge ...KAI warns ram sellers, traders from operating along alternative routes ...Agencies create special task team By Olasunkanmi Akoni and Bose Adelaja Three days after repair works commenced on faulty sections of Third Mainland Bridge in Lagos, motorists on Monday, expressed different views on… July 28, 2020 In "News"