House of Representatives Tuesday night said that the eight paragraph letter the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio to the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila did not meet the satisfaction of the parliament. The House said it requested the minister to publish the list of contractors he had alleged were members of the House, expressing disappointment that the minister rather chose to write a letter to the speaker. A statement by the Spokesman of the House, Hon. Benjamin Kalu stated that the House was still considering the letter and may still make good its earlier threat of approaching the court for perjury and defamation against Akpabio if it was not satisfied. Kalu, however, said that the letter had exonerated the 9th House as Akpabio completely withdrew its statement that 60 per cent of the contracts of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC were given to the lawmakers. Kalu said: “Following a motion unanimously adopted by the House, an investigation was ordered into the activities and financial malfeasance of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and its Interim Management Committee (IMC) between the periods of January to May 2020. “In a coordinated and calculated attempt to distract Nigerians from the on-going investigation, the Minister of NDDC and the leadership of the IMC raised spurious allegations against members of the National Assembly. The Minister claimed under oath that 60% of all the NDDC projects under investigation were awarded to members of the House between the months of January and May 2020. “Following this disturbing allegation, the leadership of the 9th House issued a 48-hour ultimatum to the Minister to publish a list of the legislators allegedly awarded 60% of the entire projects of NDDC between January and May 2020. Instead of publishing the list for the world to see in the interest of transparency, the Minister in his usual diversionary tactics chose to send an irrelevant 8-paragraph private letter to the Speaker regarding projects of 2018 which pre-date the 9th House of Representatives and had little to do with the bogus claims he made. “The House, therefore, reiterates that the Minister was given an ultimatum to publish names and not to write a personal letter to the Speaker. The Honourable Minister is hereby cautioned to desist from spinning tales and is invited to go public as instructed. “Nevertheless, it will interest Nigerians to know that paragraph 3 of the Minister’s letter fully exonerated the 9th Assembly. Also, in paragraph 7, the Minister completely withdrew his previous statement about 60% of the NDDC projects being awarded to members of the 9th Assembly. “Furthermore, the directive to press charges against the Minister has not been lifted by the House as the leadership is busy considering the weight of the Honourable Minister’s letter. If it does not clear the doubt and wrong perception, it will be sent to the court for clearance as the Speaker stated. “Once again, the letter’s annexures showing 2018 projects have no relevance to what was requested from the Minister because it was outside the scope of his claims, it was also not comprehensive but selective by mentioning only one current member for attracting projects to his constituency and not for receiving contracts. The House is mindful of a letter currently before it where the Minister also applied to attract several projects to his Senatorial Zone during his time at the Senate, does it mean the contracts were awarded to him?” Kalu statement also listed the total number of projects seen in the 2018 and 2019 budgets of the NDDC, saying the number was contrary to what Akpabio listed in his letter. He added that his letter also exonerated the chairman, House Committee on NDDC, Hon. Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, urging Nigerians to ignore the minister and his antics to deceive them. “It is also instructive for Nigerians to note that the total number of projects in the 2019 NDDC budget was 5959 out of which 5416 projects were rolled over from 2018, which the 9th Assembly obviously had no influence or control over. Therefore, unable to prove his claims, the Minister presented an ineffectual spreadsheet of only 266 projects out of which about 20 projects were attracted by past members of the National Assembly as constituency projects, not as contractors, but in furtherance of their representative mandate. “The projects presented in the Minister’s letter are not within the scope of the investigation and do nothing to address the leadership’s ultimatum for him to publish the list of names of the members who he claimed took 60 per cent of NDDC projects from January to May 2020. “Also, contrary to the mischievous narrative being peddled on the internet, the only mention of the Chairman of the NDDC Committee of the 9th House of Representatives, Rep. Tunji Ojo in that letter, was as to his alleged request for the complete payment of 19 contractors who had approached him with complaints about NDDC’s non-payment for their services. This is, however, an allegation which has been completely refuted by Rep. Ojo and for which there is no evidence linking him. “The one member of the House mentioned in that letter only attracted the project to his federal constituency, in the same manner, that the NDDC MD, EDFA, EDP, Chairman etc applied to the Commission for attention to the needs of their people and were obliged. This attraction of projects does not in any way mean that contracts were personally awarded to them. “Additionally, the letter also listed the names of contract awardees with no evidence linking them to those who attracted the projects to the beneficiary communities. It makes lifting the corporate veil for the directors to be seen and the Corporate Affairs Commission is there to establish who the real owners of the companies are. Until then, it is wrong to attempt to establish a nexus which currently does not exist. The document remains a mere spreadsheet of people who attracted projects to their communities in furtherance of their representative functions. “Nigerians are encouraged to ignore the deflections of the Honourable Minister and continue to ask the right questions as to what happened to the money of the region which has led to a gross disservice to Niger-Deltans. Nigerians should start asking the right questions and demanding the right answers; and the right question remains, “What happened to Nigeria’s ₦81.5billion under the charge of NDDC in the space of 6 months?”, Kalu asked. Vanguard For failing to publish the names of members of the National Assembly allegedly benefited from the lucrative contracts of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, the House of Representatives has sued the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio for perjury and defamation. July 23, 2020 In "News" ...We must prove ourselves worthy of public trust, says Gbajabiamila By Tordue Salem and Levinus Nwabughiogu The House of Representatives has resolved to sue the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio for criminal perjury and civil defamation. Speaker of the House, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila made the decision on Thursday… July 23, 2020 In "Politics" House of Representatives may not have wholly discarded the threat to slam a lawsuit against the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio for alleged perjury and defamation. July 26, 2020 In "News"