Ogun government has directed all secondary school teachers in the state to resume on Monday, Aug. 3 ahead of the West African Senior Secondary Schools Examination (WASSCE) scheduled for Aug. 17. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Primary and Secondary Education, Mrs. Ronke Soyombo, gave this directive in Abeokuta on Friday. Soyombo quoted Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun as saying that the aim was to enable the teachers to work with their principals in preparation for students’ resumption on Aug. 4. Abiodun said the directive was for teachers in public and private schools to enable them to assist in the distribution of materials provided by the state government for the examinations. He said all guidelines stipulated by the government for the students’ resumption were to be followed strictly by all school administrators. He enjoined all stakeholders to cooperate with the state government to ensure a safe return to schools. “The Ogun state government wishes to inform the general public that all Senior Secondary School Three students both in the public and private schools will resume to school on August 4 in readiness for intensive revision classes ahead of their WASSCE. “The revision exercise is being put in place to cover the academic gaps and lapses for students that could not follow the virtual classes tagged Ogundigiclass put in place by the state government while they were at home. “The concerned students are to resume to their individual schools on Tuesday, August 4,” he said. Vanguard As both primary and secondary schools nationwide are expected to resume today in compliance with the directive by the Federal Government, parents and teachers have, however, been thrown into confusion following counter-directives by some state governments which have fixed different dates for schools to resume. September 22, 2014 In "Headlines" James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta Ogun State government has advised parents to quickly pay the West African Examination Council(WAEC) fees for their children and wards in the state's public secondary schools lest they miss the examination. The state government said it has observed that some parents and guardians have not paid… January 9, 2020 In "Education" The Ogun Government said it had commenced virtual learning platform in partnership with an accredited Microsoft Education Global training partner in the state. Mrs Ronke Soyombo, Special Adviser to Gov. Dapo Abiodun on Primary, Secondary and Technical Education, disclosed this in a statement issued in Abeokuta on Saturday. Soyombo said… April 25, 2020 In "News"