The International Monetary Fund said it had approved $7.6 million debt relief to Burundi to help address the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. It said the relief for three months would be potentially raised to $24.97 million over the next 21 months if resources are available. “IMF debt relief will help free up resources for public sector health needs, including other emergency spending and help mitigate the balance of payments shock posed by the COVID-19 pandemic,’’ the IMF said in a statement. The IMF said it has revised downwards economic growth projections for 2020 by 5.3 percentage points to -3.2 per cent this year. “The pandemic has exacerbated pre-existing economic challenges and creates significant external financing needs in 2020 and 2021, mainly as a result of lower exports, elevated imports needs, and reduced remittances inflows,’’ it said. Burundi has so far had 328 cases of COVID-19 and one death. REUTERS Vanguard The World Bank Group and International Monetary Fund (IMF) have said they were mobilising world resources to help Africa defeat COVID-19. The leaders of the two institutions held a virtual meeting with African leaders, bilateral partners, and multilateral institutions to spur faster action on COVID-19 response in African countries, they… April 17, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" --Calls for suspension of debt payments By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA - THE Organized labour in Nigeria has expressed displeasure over the exclusion of Nigeria among the 25 poor countries benefitting from the debt relief services by the International Monetary Fund, IMF. The generosity of the IMF, was to help the… April 14, 2020 In "News" By Emma Ujah, Abuja Bureau Chief At the onset of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) index case in Nigeria in February the Federal Government provided N102.5 billion for direct interventions in the healthcare sector. A crises fund was established to address emerging and priority funding needs for the economy which had earlier… May 4, 2020 In "Economic outlook"