89 years old billionaire, former Formula 1 boss, Bernie Ecclestone, and wife Fabiana Flosi, 44, on Friday told of their joy as they proudly showed off their newborn for the first time. ‘It’s only his second day in the world so he’s not doing very much at the moment but he’s in great form,’ Mr. Ecclestone said. Miss Flosi gave birth to Alexander Charles Ecclestone on Wednesday near Bern, Switzerland, where they are spending lockdown at their home. She said on Friday: ‘I’m very happy, it could not have gone better. We are thrilled as a family.’ Mr. Ecclestone is already used to having a baby around as he has three daughters from his previous marriages and five grandchildren. His eldest, Deborah, 65, was born to first wife Ivy Bamford. He has two other daughters, socialites Tamara, 35, and Petra, 31, with his second wife Slavica Radic. This time around, though, Mr. Ecclestone, who will celebrate his 90th birthday in October, hopes it may be an easier experience. He said: ‘It’s all very good, I am very happy. It’s different now, I’m more relaxed and my work is not so pressured so I can spend more time with him.’ He added: ‘I just hope I live long enough to see as much of our baby as I can.’ Asked if he would be changing nappies, Mr. Ecclestone said: ‘I doubt it. I will do what is asked.’ He married marketing director Miss Flosi in 2012, three years after he divorced the Croatian model, Miss Radic. She told earlier this week how the birth had been easy, saying: ‘The birth was over after 25 minutes. Thank God!’ When Mr. Ecclestone confirmed earlier this year that he was to become a father again at 89, he said. ‘I don’t see there is any difference between being 89 and 29. You have got the same problems, I suppose.’ Petra Ecclestone had her first child with fiancé Sam Palmer, 37 in March. She already has Lavinia, seven, and five-year-old twins James and Andrew with ex-husband James Stunt. Her sister Tamara has daughter Sophia, six, with art mogul Jay Rutland. Dailymail Vanguard •Rescue three newly born babies, their mothers, three pregnant teenagers •How my wife was deceived with fake pregnancy — Suspect •As victims narrate their ordeals By Ifeanyi Okolie Operatives of the Inspector General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team, IRT, have smashed a notorious human trafficking syndicate operating from a… July 4, 2020 In "Crime Guard" The heiress of former Formula One chief Bernie Ecclestone was targeted in a multi-million dollar jewelry heist at her palatial London home, according to a report. Tamara Ecclestone, 35, allegedly had her entire jewelry collection — around $66 million dollars worth of gems — swiped from her ransacked home near… December 16, 2019 In "News" By Femi Kehinde Some people demand honour from their fellowmen and sometimes, by sundry devices, succeed in forcing and enforcing it. Others, who are very rare in their breed and number, command honour: they evoke it, they deserve it; and they do so because of their profound, worthy, and abiding… July 4, 2020 In "Viewpoint"