THE Senate Wednesday passed a bill seeking to establish the  City University  of Technology, Auchi, Edo State. The Bill for the Establishment of the University which is to upgrade the Federal Polytechnic, Auchi to City University of Technology, Auchi to facilitate more access to quality higher technical education, was sponsored by the Chairman, Senate Committee on Customs, Excise and Tariff, Senator Francis Alimikhena, All Progressives Congress, APC, Edo North. The Bill, City University of Technology Auchi( Est, etc) Bill, 2020( SB.22) was read the third time and passed. Also yesterday, the Senate passed the bill for the establishment of Nigeria Maritime University, Okerenkoko in Delta State. The bill seeking to establish the Nigeria Maritime University was sponsored by Senator James Manager, PDP Delta South. The Bill for the establishment of Federal College of Education, Giwa, Kaduna State was also passed. The Bill was sponsored by Senator Uba Sani, APC Kaduna Central. The three bills were passed by the upper chamber following a clause-by-clause  consideration of the report of the Senate Committee on Tertiary Institutions and TETFUND as presented by the Chairman, Senator Babba Kaita Ahmed, APC, Katsina North. While presenting the report, Kaita said that the Federal Polytechnic Auchi was currently running degree programmes in affiliation with Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra with enrollment of over 50, 000 students on full and part time. He said that upgrading the institution to a federal university would provide training of high skills in the areas of technical and vocational education The Senate after passing the three bills adjourned till next week Tuesday, July 21, 2020. Vanguard THE Senate  has started debate on a Bill for an act to establish City University of Technology, Auchi, sponsored by the Deputy Senate Whip, Senator Francis Alimikhena (APC, Edo North). February 23, 2018 In "News" ...seeks introduction of sanctions, establishment of Fiscal Responsibility Council The Senate has initiated moves to ensure strict compliance with fiscal transparency and accountability by Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government sequel to the consideration of a bill to repeal and re-enact the Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2007. Sponsor of the bill,… February 6, 2020 In "News" ABUJA - THE Bill seeking for the Establishment of South East Development Commission, was re- introduced in the Senate on Wednesday . November 13, 2019 In "News"