The Edo State Government has said the frontline workers temporarily engaged in screening and testing for coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state would be paid their outstanding allowance upon the conclusion of the vetting of their payroll. Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, in a statement, said the taskforce was demobilised after the state exceeded its target to screen and test over 500,000 and 5,000 persons respectfully. “The screening exercise was massive and crosscutting. The officials were inundated with lists of persons, who were said to have participated in the exercise. So, we are carefully vetting the lists before making the final payment. The outstanding allowances would be paid before the end of the week,” he said. According to him, “The taskforce for the screening exercise was set up in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The government, upon the outbreak of the pandemic in the state, based its response on the data polled from an epidemiological study done in partnership with the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH). This led to the setting up of a taskforce to embark on a massive screening and testing of 500,000 and 5000 persons across the state. “The target has been achieved and surpassed. This has led to the modification of our response to the pandemic. With this, the taskforce was demobilised across the screening centres at mobile posts, borders and several other locations.” He assured that the delay in payment of allowances was as a result of the vetting of the list of volunteers and other frontline workers, which would be resolved within the week. Vanguard  As govt concludes payroll vetting The Edo State Government has said the frontline workers temporarily engaged in screening and testing for coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state would be paid their outstanding allowance upon the conclusion of the vetting of their payroll. Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication… June 30, 2020 In "News" BENIN CITY – FOR the second time in two weeks, personnel of the Edo state mobile screening team on Covid-19 yesterday staged a protest in Benin City over the state government's refusal to pay their two months allowances. June 30, 2020 In "News" EDO State Government has announced the discharge of 917 suspected coronavirus cases across the 18 local government areas of the state, who have completed the compulsory 14-day follow up and tested negative. May 20, 2020 In "News"