There was pandemonium late Tuesday night when Gunmen stormed premises of Danatrite Construction Company in Oban, Akampka LGA of Cross River killing a police sergeant, Ifere Samson, and while abducting four foreign Nationals. Vanguard learnt that kan Jinxi, Hujinchang, Jiang Jijun, and Cheng Qing, were all kidnapped at the premises of Danatrite Construction Company in Oban, Akamkpa LGA. Vanguard further learnt that the gunmen who stormed the Cross River company at night killed Sgt. Ifere Sampson who was the security on guard at the company. In this same vein, one Mrs. Udosen whose husband was kidnapped and killed in 2018 in Calabar was also kidnapped yesterday night in Calabar South LGA. Although details are still sketchy as findings show that security agents are already on the trail of the gang who carried out the kidnapping. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, DSP Irene Ugbo confirmed the report adding that it was indeed true that a police officer was killed during the unfortunate incident. She told Vanguard on phone that the matter was still fresh and active assuring that the police were on top of the situation as their operatives were already on the trail of the hoodlums. She said: “As I speak with you, the Deputy Commissioner of Police and some team of officers are on their way to the area and i will give you more details. “I cannot really tell you much about the incident but as they conduct preliminary investigations I will give you extra details as soon as possible ,” she said Vanguard News Nigeria. ..His wife is pregnant,with four other children ...Family source ..he was Ex-PDP Chapter Chairman in Odukpani ... Security Adviser By Ike Uchechukwu - Calabar A former Chapter Chairman of People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Ekpenyong Akom and an aide to Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State was on Saturday night,… May 17, 2020 In "News" Two suspects (names withheld) are being interrogated by men of the Ugep Police Division in connection with the brutal killing of two police officers in Yakurr Local Government Area, LGA, of Cross River State. February 15, 2018 In "Crime Guard" ...Residents on red alert By Ike Uchechukwu, Calabar Barely six days after an accounting staff with the Cross River Newspaper Corporation, Mr Maurice Archibong, and an Associate Professor at the University of Calabar, David Ugwu, were kidnapped by gunmen, a businessman based in the city has also been abducted. A… February 19, 2020 In "News"