The APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Thursday night declared that there were no differences to be sorted out at the party. Tinubu, also said, “there is no crisis in the party, hence, no fight to reconcile.” He made the declaration shortly after a closed-door meeting with Gov. Mai Mala Buni, Chairman of the APC Caretaker Committee, and other members at his Bourdillon Residence in Ikoyi, Lagos. Buni, also Governor of Yobe, led other members of the APC National Caretaker Committee to the Lagos meeting with Tinubu. ”We have no differences to be sorted out in the APC; we just had a consultation and it is how our party, the APC, would continue to be a progressive party,” he said. According to him, the committee is a consultation and not reconciliation committee since nobody is fighting anybody. ”There are instances when you disagree, but it doesn’t mean that you cannot discuss it over and be a good example in leadership and politics,” Tinubu said. The former Lagos State governor also said that politics without seeming media crisis would be less interesting. ”But the question is, are we committed to building this party and Nigeria? That is what we are all about. ”We are steering the ship of our nation and our party in the right direction,” Tinubu said. He said that the party leadership had trust and respect for the chairman of the caretaker committee and would support him to succeed for the party to continue in its progressive governance of the country. The committee chairman, who led other members to the meeting, said that the meeting was part of the consultation the committee was making. ”You know the task before us is daunting, and we need guidance, experience, and prayers from our leaders,” Buni said. The host Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, expressed his pleasure to have his colleagues in the state. ”It’s been a very fruitful discussion we have had here this evening,” Sanwo-Olu said. Other members of the committee in attendance included the Chairman of Progressive Governor’s Forum, Gov. Abubakar Atiku Bagudu; Secretary of Caretaker Committee, APC, Sen. James Akpan Udo-Edehe and Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Bello. NAN Vanguard As Buni, members meet Tinubu in Lagos By Olasunkanmi Akoni National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has expressed confidence and sincere support for the APC's Caretaker Committee, led by its Chairman, Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni. Tinubu made the remarks on Thursday,  after… July 3, 2020 In "Politics" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Members of Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), led by its chairman, Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni are currently in a closed door meeting with National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu at his Bourdillon residence, Ikoyi, Lagos. Others in the closed door meeting include:… July 2, 2020 In "News" Reasons President Muhammadu Buhari moved against the suspended National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, emerged last night, as the  National Executive Committee, NEC, wielded the big stick to check the crisis ravaging the party and avert what the President described as self-destruction. June 26, 2020 In "Politics"