Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, yesterday, described President Muhammadu Buhari as a stabilising force, whose honest leadership and visionary economic policies are stabilising the country and creating a promising, sustainable self-reliant economy at a most trying time in the country. Uzodinma, who was speaking while a delegation of the Coalition of Ethnic Nationality Youth Leaders of Nigeria, led by its Chairman, Mohamadu Salihu Danlami, paid him a courtesy visit in Owerri, said it was convenient for people to rail on the heightened insecurity situation in the country, forgetting that there was a time Boko Haram was occupying more than 24 LGAs in the country. The governor submitted that the President’s honest management of resources and selflessness  has helped, in no small way, in stabilising the polity and in putting the economy on the path  of recovery and self reliance, adding that but for the President’s manifest honest leadership and relentless onslaught against corruption, the country would have long gone under. Uzodinma said unlike in the past when the military were ill-equipped, the President has strengthened the security architecture with the modern weapons to defend the country, with Buhari’s regular interaction with security chiefs demonstrating that he is personally interested in how they carry out their assignments. On the economy, the governor said the recent World Bank report giving Nigerian economy a pass mark in growth has confirmed that the government’s economic policies were yielding results and commended the President for his initiative in improving on national revenue by exploring other natural resources outside crude oil. Vanguard By Chidi Nkwopara, OWERRI. Imo State Government weekend, renamed the state-owned College of Education, Ihitte Uboma, to Benjamin Uwajumogu College of Education. Governor Hope Uzodinma made the announcement while speaking at Ihitte Uboma, during the burial ceremony of late Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu. Uzodimma described the late Senator as "a humane,… February 23, 2020 In "News" By Henry Umoru - Abuja Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State has raised the alarm that the current wave of insecurity in the country as the worst in the Nation's history. According to the Governor,  Leadership and Patriotism being exhibited by President Muhammadu Buhari led administration, are the way out.… October 11, 2020 In "News" OWERRI - POLITICAL tension in Imo State heightened yesterday, after the First Lady, Aisha Buhari, disagreed with Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, after the latter boasted that his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, of Action Alliance, AA, and not  Senator Hope Uzodinma of the  All Progressives Congress (APC), will win in… January 13, 2019 In "News"