Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, has said the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is only disappointed because Governor Godwin Obaseki refused to be used in his quest to become a godfather in the state. In a statement, the governor’s aide said the recent vituperation of the former National Chairman is just an expression of his frustration over his failure to achieve his goal to govern Edo State for a third term using Governor Obaseki as a proxy. According to him, “In 2016 when Oshiomhole nominated and supported Obaseki, his hidden motive was to use Governor Obaseki who he thought would be a pawn in his game to defraud Edo people and enthrone himself as the ultimate godfather of Edo politics at the expense of the will and wishes of Edo people. “However, Obaseki’s refusal to mortgage the interest of the majority of Edo people for the satisfaction of the avarice of Oshiomhole and his handful of greedy followers is the cause of Oshiomhole’s bitterness which has led him to bury himself in pursuit of an innocent governor who is trying to do the right thing for his people.” “If Oshiomhole had made any mistake in supporting Obaseki in 2016, it is to the extent that he thought that the Governor will submit himself as a tool to be used to hold the collective will and best interest of all Edo people hostage and for this Obaseki owes Oshiomhole no apologies because the interest of Edo people is and will always be greater than the interest of one man,” Osagie added. Vanguard GOVERNOR Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, for sure, knows how to ruffle feathers and he struck devastatingly, last week,   when   he stated that he learned   to combat political godfathers from his former governor of the state, his erstwhile boss and political mentor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, currently the… July 20, 2019 In "News" After the political drama of the last few weeks, no one is in doubt that Governor Godwin Obaseki is determined to sweep the legacies of his predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, under the carpet. June 28, 2020 In "Politics" By Hassan Ainofenokhai Godfatherism is a doctrine of the Catholic Church where a child is blessed with a godfather and that child becomes a godson.  The idea is for a godfather to provide guidance and be role model to the child from infancy to adulthood. Therefore, there is nothing wrong… June 27, 2020 In "News"