PORT HARCOURT – FORMER Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Chibudom Nwuche has blamed increasing leadership failure in Nigeria on lack of fresh ideas in the nation’s politics. Nwuche, addressing current state of the nation in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, said one way to grow a country’s politics is by injecting new blood into the system, courageous young men and women devoid of ethnic bigotry. Nwuche stated, “Every right-thinking, qualified Nigerian citizen is eligible to contest for any office of his or her choice irrespective of ethnic background. “We have seen in the past where those who play God in politics used their position to witch hunt Rivers sons and daughters. Such leaders should have no place in our politics and should be shown the way out. “People should understand that they are not God and cannot be God. You cannot limit a man’s ambition or his achievements. That is between him and God.” The former House Deputy Speaker declared, “I am now a mentor of youths. In this game of politics, nothing ventured, nothing gained. Let them (youth) seek office legitimately and legally. “We need to ensure that every eminently qualified Rivers son and daughters who desire elective office should put themselves forward”. Vanguard News Nigeria By Egufe Yafugborhi, Port-Harcourt Former Deputy Speaker in the National Assembly, Chibudom Nwuche, OFR, has lauded Governor Nyesom Wike for widespread delivery of milestone projects and reformist brand of politics that has bridged vexed "upland, riverine dichotomy" in Rivers state. Nwuche in a statement in Port Harcourt by his Media… July 8, 2020 In "News" Erstwhile Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Prince Chibudom Nwuche, famed as The Tiger in his time in the House between 1999 and 2003, was the Acting Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP in the recently dissolved National Working Committee, NWC. Nwuche in this interview reviews… October 7, 2013 In "Politics" As the Deputy Coordinator of the South South for the Jonathan/Sambo Campaign Organization, former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Prince Chibudom Nwuche is in the thick of the bid to elect President Goodluck Jonathan in the April elections. February 5, 2011 In "Politics"