StarTimes has refreshed its content offerings, bringing more sought-after content to its subscribers at the most affordable rate in the market. This is even as a new blockbuster Hollywood movie channel and two premium sports rights are coming on the platform. To bring these exciting offerings within the reach of every Nigerian, the pay-TV entertainment provider said it pioneered and remains the only player in the Nigerian market offering flexible subscription options – daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly, allowing Nigerians to subscribe according to their needs and means. Disclosing this during a virtual conference meeting with journalists, on Friday, in Lagos, Viki Liu, Marketing Manager of StarTimes said that due to  StarTimes’ giant stride to make digital TV affordable to all families, the price of pay-TV has been greatly lowered, from average $50 per month to 3 or 5 dollars per month. She noted that the pay-as-you-go options are available for all bouquets; and whether a customer subscribes daily, weekly or monthly to a bouquet, he will have access to the same channels and services, adding that flexible billing systems are reasonable for people who do not spend reasonable time watching television after subscription. Viki said that although the sharp drop in naira has forced the brand to adjust some of its bouquet prices upwards from August 1, subscribers will get more value for what they are paying, without compromising affordability. Her words, “Over the last couple of months, StarTimes has been adding new and exciting channels, great local and international channels for the viewing pleasure of our teeming subscribers without an additional charge. These channels, including other existing flagship channels and content, were acquired at a cost which StarTimes has continued to bear to cushion the economic pressure on subscribers.” “For sports lovers, StarTimes offers varieties of international football tournaments for the entertainment of our teeming subscribers. Europa League, Bundesliga and Coppa Italia are exclusive on StarTimes. We also air English FA Cup, Copa Del Rey among others. VANGUARD StarTimes, a Pay-TV provider, has reaffirmed subscription affordability through the pay-as-you-go model as it adds new offerings. July 10, 2020 In "News" ON Digital Media, ODM, owner of South African pay-TV platform, Top TV is in the news again. The development centred around a business plan to reposition the TV operator which some shareholders allege they were not privy to. November 6, 2013 In "Technology" After Nigeria alongside other 119 member countries in 2006 signed up to the International Telecoms Union, ITU protocol to transit from Analogue to Digital broadcasting by 2015 in line with global trend, Nigeria gave itself a task of concluding transition by June 17, 2012, three years before deadline. April 1, 2017 In "Business"