Former All Progressives Congress, APC presidential aspirant in 2019 and 2023 presidential hopeful, Chief Charles Udeogaranya, has cautioned Mamman Daura to not heat up the polity if the statement accredited to him on presidential zoning was true. Malam Mamman Daura was quoted to have said that there is no need for zoning the presidential ticket to any part of the country. He said Nigeria’s political space should be left open for the best candidate to emerge as President. Perceived as the most powerful personality in Buhari’s administration, Daura in a teaser for an exclusive interview with the Hausa Service of the BBC, said the most qualified person from any part of the country should succeed his uncle. Buhari’s second term will elapse by 2023, and moves have begun in different parts of the country as to which part should produce the next President. However, Udeogaranya said it is not acceptable. According to him, “from 1970 till date, only Ndigbo(South-East) in Southern Nigeria are yet to produce President of Nigeria due to skewed and manipulated electoral processes.” Udeogaranya anchored that what is good for the goose is equally good for the gander, and that it is unfounded that the Nigerian presidency had gone round nationally, when South-East and Ndigbo are yet to produce a Nigerian president. Udeogaranya urged Mamman Daura to kindly withdraw the statement if it was truly issued by him and lend strong support for the 2023 Nigeria presidency of Igbo ancestry, which is the only route for a better Nigeria. VANGUARD An array of potential presidential aspirants stormed the United States to lobby support for election of a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction in 2023, a move similar to the global campaign undertaken by members of All Progressives Congress, APC, prior to 2015 presidential election. January 13, 2020 In "News" A chieftain of All Progressives Congress, APC, and a presidential aspirant of the party, Chief Charles Udeogaranya Sunday commended the former National chairman of APC, Chief Bisi Akande for his constitutionally backed statement that the presidential ticket of the party was open to all in the 2019 general election. October 15, 2017 In "News" Former Presidential aspirant of All Progressives Congress, APC, who dumped the party for the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Charles Udeogaranya has urged the international community to save Nigeria from a looming genocidal war. February 14, 2019 In "News"