Thousands of Israelis protested Saturday in Jerusalem and other cities including Tel Aviv, demanding Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s resignation over his government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic. In Jerusalem, they rallied outside Netanyahu’s residence holding up signs accusing him of corruption, a reference to the premier’s indictment in January for bribery, fraud and breach of trust in three cases. He denies all the charges. “We are fed up with the corrupt,” some signs read, alongside others reading “Where are the morals? Where are the values?” Protesters also slammed a law passed this week that gives the government special powers to fight the spread of the virus until the end of 2021. Protests against economic fallout from the pandemic have spread across the country in recent weeks. In some cases police sprayed demonstrators with water cannons, injuring some. Israel won praise for its initial response to the COVID-19 outbreak, but the government has come under criticism amid a resurgence in cases after restrictions were lifted starting in late April. After experiencing more than 1,000 new coronavirus infections a day in recent weeks, the government has re-imposed some restrictions, including closing bars, nightclubs and gyms. The country of some nine million people has so far recorded 60,496 confirmed cases, including 455 deaths. On Saturday thousands of protesters also rallied in the coastal city of Tel Aviv. Protesters are also frustrated with the impact virus curbs had on the economy, with the unemployed and reduced-income families saying the government is not doing enough to help them. Israel’s unemployment has jumped from 3.4 per cent in February to 27 per cent in April, before falling slightly in May to 23.5 per cent. Vanguard News Nigeria. With the Israeli government enacting a series of emergency measures to stem the spread of the new coronavirus, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is facing growing accusations that he is exploiting the crisis to entrench himself in power and undermining the country’s democratic foundations. Amid a wave of sweeping restrictions that… March 19, 2020 In "Foreign" Israel's government announced Saturday it would impose a three-week nationwide lockdown in an effort to stem one of the world's highest novel coronavirus infection rates after a surge in cases. The lockdown order, set to go into effect on Friday, makes Israel the first developed economy to take such a… September 14, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Thousands of Israelis have demonstrated in several locations across the country against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's corruption trial and coronavirus pandemic crisis management. According to a police spokesman on Saturday evening, more than 7,000 people took part in a demonstration near the official residence of the 70-year-old premier in Jerusalem,… August 2, 2020 In "Foreign"