A two-storey building under construction in Abuja collapsed on Saturday trapping 10 persons with one seriously injured. The incident happened behind Dawaki Modern Market, in Galadima area of the Federal Capital Territory. The incident occurred at about 10:40 am and the building suffered a total collapse, leaving some its occupants, who were workers at the site, injured. Officials of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), FCT Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Fire Service and the Nigerian Police Force responded to the distress call and rescued the workers. The person who was seriously wounded was among three persons immediately taken to a nearby hospital for treatment. Alhaji Idris Abbas, Director-General, FEMA, said emergency response was swiftly activated immediately the agency got the distress call. He added that based on the report the agency received the building was a bungalow but the developer was trying to upgrade it to a two-storey building. “Ten persons were trapped, three were rescued and were taken to the hospital while others are okay,” he said. He also advised builders to desist from contravening the building plan as approved by the development control department of the FCT. Air Commodore Edward Adedokun, Director, Search and Rescue, NEMA, said the agency was on ground immediately it received the distress call to coordinate all agencies at the site of the building collapse. He added that the agency would ensure that all necessary clearance operation was concluded to ascertain that no victim was left trapped in the rubble. Mr Muktar Galadima, Director, Department of Development Control, added that his organisation had given the developer a ‘stop work’ notice when it noticed a modification of the building. “On the 17th of this month, when our officers were moving round and monitoring developments, they noticed the modification of the building from a bungalow to a two-storey building and he was issued a stop-work notice. “He, however, took advantage of the weekend and resumed work and this incident happened, and due process, as well as engineering process, was not followed,” he said. Mr Harisu Abdullahi, one of the survivors said he was working on the first floor of the building when he noticed the building collapsing and he regained consciousness when he noticed he was being rushed to the hospital. He, however, appreciated God for sparing his life. NAN reports that the nine-hour clearing operation ended at about 7:15 p.m. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. A two-storey building under construction in Abuja collapsed on Saturday trapping 10 persons with one seriously injured. July 25, 2020 In "News" Tragedy struck yesterday, after part of a two-storey building under construction at NICON Town Estate, off Admiralty Way in Lekki area of Lagos, collapsed, killing two persons— Tasiu Tanko and Abdulai Usman—who were construction workers. April 28, 2017 In "News" IT was a harvest of collapse buildings in Lagos in the last two days where three buildings have collapsed at different locations in the state leaving at least two dead and several others injured. May 9, 2013 In "News"