A 29-year-old man, Adewole Adeyeni, on Monday appeared in an Ile-Ife Magistrates’ Court in Osun for publicly smoking marijuana. Ageyeni, is charged with conspiracy, smoking of cannabis and being in possession of drugs. The Prosecution Counsel, Insp Abdullahi Emmanuel, told the court that the defendant committed the offence on July 1, 2020 at about 9 a.m. at Ayetoro Area, Ile-Ife. Emmanuel said that the defendant conspired with others now at large and conducted themselves in a manner that may likely cause a breakdown of law and order in Ile-Ife and it’s environs. Emmanuel said that the offence contravened the provisions of sections 249(d), 340 and 516 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Osun, 2002. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty. The Defence Counsel, Mrs Omoyeni Tosin, who prayed for the bail of the defendant in the most Liberal terms, pledged that his client would not jump bail, but would produce responsible sureties. Magistrate A. A. Adebayo admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N100,000 with one surety in like amount. Adebayo ordered that the surety must swear to affidavit of means, resides within the court jurisdiction, the address to be verified by prosecutor as well as produce three recent passport photographs each. He adjourned the case until Sept 17 for hearing. NAN Vanguard News Nigeria The prosecutor, Insp Emmanuel Abdullahi, told the court that the defendant committed the offence on Nov. 5, 2019 at about 12 p.m. at Camp area, Ile-Ife. November 14, 2019 In "News" A 42-year-old man, Jubril Anifowose, on Thursday appeared in an Ile-Ife Magistrates’ Court in Osun, for allegedly abducting his neighbour’s wife and two children. Anifowose, who pleaded not guilty to the charge, allegedly committed the offences in 2016 at No. 15, Enuwa St., Ile-Ife, where he lived in the same… July 16, 2020 In "News" Shina Abubakar Osogbo A Magistrate Court sitting in Ile-Ife, Osun State on Thursday docked one Tope Dunsin, 25, over alleged phone theft during church vigil. The charge sheet disclosed that the defendant stole one Holy Bible and cash sum of N53, 000, belonging to one Ajayi Adebimpe. It added that… March 12, 2020 In "News"