In accordance with the decision of state governors in the South-West geopolitical zone to reopen schools, primary and secondary schools in Lagos State are set to reopen on August 3, this year. However, only learners in primary six, junior secondary school 3, and senior secondary school 3 are to resume. This, it was gathered, followed a meeting held on Thursday in Ikeja with some stakeholders in the sector by officials of the Lagos State Ministry of Education. During the meeting, the Department of Quality Assurance in the ministry mandated all schools, whether public or private to fill an online assessment form, stating their preparedness to meet conditions stipulated for school reopening by the Federal Ministry of Education. Each school will later be issued clearance for it to reopen. Speaking on the development, the Lagos State President of the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools, NAPPS, Chief Olawale Amusa, said his association had also set up a Quality Assurance Committee to go round schools and assess the readiness of members. He expressed optimism that most of his members would meet the requirements for reopening schools. Also, despite the discordant tunes that have greeted the conduct of this year’s WASSCE by the West African Examinations Council, WAEC, South-West states are working on the possibility of partaking in the exam come September. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:  The decision by the states to partake in the exam is hinged on the need to allow final year secondary school students to be apart of this year’s admission into tertiary Institutions. Recall that only on Thursday, the Minister of State, Education, Mr. Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, said if the Federal Government could not meet up with WAEC’s timeline of conducting WASSCE in September, Nigerian candidates could take the exam in November/ December this year. Vanguard Sets conditions for operation By Charly Agwam - Bauchi The Bauchi state government has ordered the reopening of primary and secondary schools across the state with conditions that the government said must be met before schools can operate. The Commissioner of Education, Dr Aliyu Tilde made this known in Bauchi… September 25, 2020 In "Education" STUDENTS in Senior Secondary School class 3, yesterday, resumed in Lagos State to begin preparations for the 2020 West African Secondary School Certificate Examination, WASSCE, billed to start on August 17, 2020. August 4, 2020 In "Education" By Adesina Wahab Some stakeholders in the education sector have condemned the policy somersault by the Federal Government on when schools in the country will reopen and when final year students in Senior secondary schools will write their terminal examinations. The stakeholders, who spoke with Vanguard on Thursday, said such… July 10, 2020 In "Education"