Lawyers in the country have elected Mr. Olumide Akpata as next President of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA. The announcement was made at 11:56a.m., on Friday, by Chairman of the NBA Electoral Committee, Taiwo Taiwo(SAN). Akpata won the election with over 50 percent of the total votes cast. His rivals for the office of NBA President were Deacon Dele Adesina(SAN) and Dr. Babatunde Ajibade (SAN). Other winners are Mr. John Martin for NBA first Vice President; Second Vice President, Mr. Adeyemo Kazeem; General Secretary, Mrs Joyce Oduah; Assistant Secretary, Uchenna Nwadialo; Mr. Olukunle Edun, Welfare Secretary; Dr. Rapulu Nduka, Publicity Secretary and Assistant Publicity Secretary, Mr. Naza Afam. Olumide Akpata is a Senior Partner and Head of the Corporate and Commercial Practice Group at Templars Law Firm. Akpata had told Vanguard that he would be a hands-on President of the NBA, if elected, and focus on the welfare of young lawyers. He had said: “Should I become President, I will fashion out policies that will significantly improve the welfare and well-being of young lawyers and lawyers generally. “Issues around welfare in terms of better remuneration, health insurance, protection from sexual and other forms of harassment at the workplace and access to finance for those seeking to set up their own practices, will be front-burner issues for me.” Meanwhile, Adesina has called for the cancellation of the exercise, describing it as “a sham”. His campaign group, Dele Adesina Support Group, DASAN, also expressed dissatisfaction with the electoral process. In the petition addressed to Taiwo Taiwo, Adesina claimed that the process was marred by over-voting, disenfranchisement of some eligible voters and non-compliance with the provisions of the NBA Constitution. One of his grouses is that the verified voters’ list was only published about five hours to the commencement of voting contrary to the provision of the NBA constitution (2015), as amended. He noted that the constitution provided that the list be released not later than 28 days before the election. The Technical Committee on Conference Planning (TCCP) of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), which was responsible for the planning of the 2019 Annual General Conference (AGC) of the NBA, formally presented its Report on the AGC to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the NBA. The NEC is the highest… December 8, 2019 In "News" The top contenders for the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, national elections have emerged, though the process is still on. As at noon, candidates for the President, have Babatunde Ajibade, SAN, polled 3,791, Dele Adesina, SAN, 3,537 and Olumide Akpata, 8,584. Akpata is leading. ALSO READ: NBA Elections: ECNBA clarifies issue of… July 30, 2020 In "News" By Dapo Akinrefon Dele Adesina, a candidate in the ongoing election of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, has petitioned the electoral committee of the association, alleging gross manipulation in the polls, just as Olumide Akpata is leading with over 50 percent of the total votes cast. Other contenders for the… July 31, 2020 In "News"