President Muhammadu Buhari, on Sunday prayed for quick recovery of Geoffrey Onyeama, Minister of Foreign Affairs, after he tested positive for COVID-19 pandemic, and went into self isolation. Buhari made his feelings known in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja. The president described the minister as a strong pillar of his administration. He commended him for working tirelessly to stem the spread of Coronavirus in the country as a member of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. Buhari also lauded Onyeama for ensuring the safety of Nigerians abroad. “The country is eternally grateful to Geoffrey Onyeama for his diligence in attracting international support for Nigeria to defeat the Coronavirus pandemic, and boost the economy. “I wish him speedy recovery,” he said. Onyeama had earlier on Sunday disclosed, via his Twitter handle, that he tested positive for the Coronavirus and has gone on self isolation. He said: “Did my fourth COVID-19 test yesterday at the first sign of a throat irritation and unfortunately, this time, it came back positive. “That is life! Win some, loose some. Heading for isolation in a health facility and praying for the best.” Vanguard The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, has tested positive for covid-19. July 19, 2020 In "News" Foreign Minister Geoffrey Onyeama has reportedly contracted COVID-19 virus. Onyeama revealed via his Twitter handle that he felt slight throat itch and recent test confirmed he had contracted the virus. READ ALSO: COVID-19: 85 babies test positive for virus in one Texas county “(I) did my fourth Covid-19 test yesterday… July 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, says his ministry has not received any request from Nigerians aboard for their evacuation in view of the global Novel Coronavirus (COVID19) pandemic outbreak. Onyeama made this known on Tuesday in Abuja at the Presidential Task Force briefing on update of COVID-19… April 1, 2020 In "News"