Reacting to the death of the commissioner, the Publicity Secretary of the All Progressive Congress, Alex Kalejaye said that ” the piercing news of the passage of the Hon. Commissioner for Health in Ondo State, Dr. Wahab Oluropo Adegbenro, came to us as traumatic and deflating. “Dr. Adegbenro has been at the forefront of government efforts to curtail the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in Ondo State. His demise collides violently with this patriotic assignment. “Although the party is deeply traumatised by this huge loss, we pray God to console his immediate family, the people of Ifedore, and the Government of Ondo State Kalejaye said “he was a party man to the core, readily accessible, humble and dependable. His commitment to the general wellbeing of people within and outside his circle was unparalleled. Meanwhile, People are now trooping to his residence and Crown Hospital, Oja-Oshodi Akure to sympathise with his family members. The Ondo State information and Orientation Commissioner, Donald Ojogo, in a statement said “with a deep sense of sadness, the Ondo State wishes to announce the demise of the Honourable Commissioner for Health, Dr Wahab Adegbenro. “Until his death, Adegbenro, a two-time Health Commissioner in the State, equally doubled as Chairman, Ondo State Inter-ministerial Committee Against COVID-19. “Dr Adegbenro was in the forefront of the State’s battles against the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic. Not only did he signpost commitment and diligence; he, indeed, was immeasurable in his inspiration clearly defining himself as an embodiment of selflessness, hardwork and inexorable professionalism. “This is one death too heavy to bear. The excruciating pains the timing has unsparingly, wrought on us in Ondo State are no less potent. To say the least, Dr Adegbenro was our General and died healing others. Having served humanity with the attendant kindness, he played his part honourably. Vanguard News Nigeria. ...Declares today work-free day in his honour By Dayo Johnson - Akure Ondo state mourned the death of its Health Commissioner, Dr Wahab Adegbenro who died at the age of 65 from COVID-19 related complications. The state described him as a "General" who "died healing others". The Ondo State information… July 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Dayo Johnson - Akure THE deceased Ondo State Health Commissioner, Dr Wahab Adegbenro, would be committed to mother earth this morning (Friday). A family source informed Vanguard that he would be buried in his native town, Ilara Mokin, in lfedore council area of the state by 10 am according to… July 3, 2020 In "News" By Dayo Johnson - Akure Ondo state Health Commissioner, Dr Wahab Adegbenro is dead. Reports from government quarters said he died of COVID-19. Family sources said the deceased commissioner had been battling with chronic diabetes before he now contacted the virus. Adegbenro was said to have died at the Federal… July 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"