The Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, Chikwe Ihekweazu, has urged Nigerians to wear face masks as precautionary measures in curbing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, warning that wearing a face mask was more comfortable compared to being bedridden and on a ventilator. He said this on Monday, during the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing in Abuja. Ihekweazu said most Nigerians consider “wearing of face masks as being stressful. Wearing a face mask may seem very cumbersome, but it is less cumbersome than being on a ventilator.” He added: “Over the last few weeks, many of you may have heard stories of survivors. But there are many stories that could have been told that you have not heard like the stories of those that have passed away. “We all need to take responsibility by ensuring safety of our lives and that of our loved ones.” Besides Ihekweazu, PTF National Coordinator, Dr. Sani Aliyu, warned against mass gathering during the Eid-Kabir, saying Nigerians should continue to comply with the measures put in place to curb the spread of coronavirus in the country. Aliyu urged Muslims to avoid mass gatherings and observe social distancing, during Eid prayers. He added: “We would want to remind us all that the safety guideline for the second phase of the ease of lockdown is still in place for the purpose of public safety. “In fact, the protocols we have designed with regards to places of worship remain effective at the time we open mosques and churches.” VANGUARD The Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, said on Friday the country’s high population density made it more susceptible to transmission of infectious diseases such as coronavirus. Ihekweazu, who stated this at the Presidential Task Force (PTF) briefing on COVID-19 in Abuja, said that… April 10, 2020 In "News" Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, the Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says one thing the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the country cannot do, is knockout the can-do spirit and resilience of Nigerians. Ihekweazu, made this known on Friday in Abuja, during the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on… April 25, 2020 In "News" Experts say urgent action needed By Sola Ogundipe Just as the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Nigeria topped 20,000,  the focus has shifted to the rising number of deaths. Specifically in Lagos, there has been a heavy toll of the Coronavirus infection. According to the situation update of… June 24, 2020 In "Health"