Alphonso Davies has proven “a real hit” for Bayern Munich among a squad packed with player of the season candidates, according to club president Herbert Hainer. The 19-year-old Canadian has been at Bayern for 18 months after signing from Vancouver Whitecaps, and phenomenal pace and technique on the left flank has made Davies a raging success. Bayern netted a Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal double in 2019-20, with Davies making 29 league appearances, scoring three times and recording five assists. He looks like having a major role in the future of the team, and he sprang to mind when Hainer was asked who ranked as his top performer over the season. “It’s hard to single out one person in this great team, they were all sensational. But the development of Alphonso Davies has given me a lot of pleasure,” Hainer told Bayern’s official website. “A little over a year ago, nobody knew Alphonso Davies, but now he is delighting our fans all over the world. “A real hit: he is absolutely top-class on the pitch and with his young, fresh manner, he is well on the way to becoming a popular figure. The boy makes us very happy.” Fotmob Vanguard Alphonso Davies lived up to his reputation as a sprint king on Tuesday as he clocked the fastest speed in the Bundesliga since Opta records began. The Bayern Munich left-back has been one of the breakout stars of the season, making the position his own after joining from Vancouver Whitecaps… June 17, 2020 In "Sports" Bundesliga leaders Bayern Munich resisted a second-half fightback by Eintracht Frankfurt to claim a 5-2 win behind closed doors on Saturday ahead of their top-of-the-table clash at Dortmund in midweek. Goals by Leon Goretzka, the league's top-scorer Robert Lewandowski and Thomas Mueller saw Bayern lead 3-0 before Frankfurt rattled the… May 23, 2020 In "Sports" Bayern Munich have clinched an eighth successive Bundesliga title with a 1-0 victory at Werder Bremen. Hansi Flick's side went into Tuesday's contest with a seven-point lead over Borussia Dortmund at the top and knowing a win would be enough to see them retain the title with two games to… June 17, 2020 In "Sports"