Troops of Nigerian Military prosecuting the war against insurgency in the North East theatre have successfully neutralized 75 Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists after several deadly confrontations in June just as more than 35 women and children held captive by the terrorists were rescued, the Military disclosed on Sunday. Also, five Boko Haram criminals and a spy were arrested while seven other criminals including the wives of a local Boko Haram Commander in Adamawa state surrendered. One Army officer was killed, a soldier was injured in action and several sophisticated weaponry and gun trucks including GPMGs, AA Guns, AK 47 rifles and logistics equipment were captured during the encounters Making this known in Abuja, Major General John Enenche, Coordinator, Defence Media Operations said, “It is evident from recent encounters with Boko Haram/ISWAP that the resilience of the troops of Operation Lafiya Dole is being sustained across the North-East Theater of operation resulting to high BHT/ISWAP casualties on both men and equipment as well as capture or surrendering of some of their fighters. “In their resolve to end BHT/ISWAP menace in the North-East region, between 1 – 30 June 2020, the gallant troops of Operation Lafiya Dole had a total of 17 encounters with the marauding criminals, neutralizing 75 of them in the process. “The encounters also led to the capture of assorted arms and large cache of ammunition including one Anti-Aircraft Gun, 13 AK 47 Rifles, one Sniper Rifle, 21 locally made guns, 2 Dane guns and one Rocket Propelled Gun. “Others include 3 Hand Grenades, 5 Rocket Propelled Gun bombs, 205 rounds of Anti-Aircraft ammunition, 1018 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition. “Also captured were 2 Boko Haram criminals’ flags. “In the same vein, one Gun Truck, one Vehicle Borne Improvised Explosive Device, one Toyota Starlet car and several makeshift structures belonging to the terrorists were destroyed by the valiant troops within the period. “Regrettably, one officer paid the supreme price while one soldier was wounded in action. “The wounded personnel has since been evacuated to a military medical facility where he is recuperating. “Equally, 4 BHT/ISWAP criminals including 2 women namely Aishatu Manye and Kelune Mate were captured and later identified to be the wives of the local Boko Haram commander at Gajingi in Madagali LGA of Adamawa State. “Also, the troops arrested one Boko Haram spy named Kawalu during a Jumaat prayer at Michika Central Mosque and one Boko Haram fighter captured in the aftermath of an encounter at Miyanti general area in Bama LGA of Borno State. “The period under review also witnessed 4 surrenders by Boko Haram criminals. “The trio of Mohammed Babagana, Modu Jugudun and Alhaji Usman surrendered to troops of Delta Company at Strong Response Area Pulka in Gwoza LGA of Borno State while one Mustapha Kori surrendered to troops of Army Super Camp 11 Gamboru in Ngala LGA of Borno State. “It is equally heart-warming to note that, during the period, troops rescued 35 captives from the captivity of BHTs/ ISWAP criminals. “Amongst those rescued are 18 women, 16 children and one adult male. “The rescued children were promptly administered with Polio vaccine in line with the Buratai Intervention Initiative while the women were administered with First Aid as required. “The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai commends the troops for the resilience and patriotism they continue to demonstrate in crushing the remnants of BHTs/ISWAP criminals. “He also urges them to maintain the tempo against the criminals as we approach the end of insurgency in our country. “In a similar vein, the Military High Command encourages the troops of Lafiya Dole to remain resolute in curtailing the activities of terrorists and their collaborators in the North-East zone of the country. “The High Command equally appreciates Nigerians for their support and urges them to continue providing timely information to troops on activities of BHTs/ISWAP collaborators in their respective localities for prompt and effective action.” Vanguard Nigeria News The Military High Command has confirmed that scores of Boko Haram terrorists fleeing intense land and air offensive against their hideouts and camps in the North East were infiltrating the North West and North Central, emboldening armed banditry and other crimes. July 10, 2020 In "News" The Defence Headquarters said on Monday troops of Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD) have killed another top commander of Boko Haram, Abu Usamah in an encounter at Gorgi area of Borno State. The Acting Director of Defence Media Operations, Brig.-Gen. Benard Onyeuko, who disclosed this in a statement in Abuja, said… March 30, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian Army has announced that 16 member of Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) have surrendered to the superior fire power of its troops in the North East. November 8, 2019 In "News"