The Lagos State Government has directed all the Senior School 3, SS3 and Technical Study Three, TEC3, students in both day and boarding schools in the state to resume on Monday, August 3, 2020. This was in line with the Federal Government’s pronouncement, directing students in exit classes across the country to resume on Tuesday, 4th of August, 2020 for revision classes ahead of their forthcoming examinations. Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo who disclosed this the measure “is to allow for revision classes and adequate preparation ahead of their forthcoming West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE).” Adefisayo stated that the directive of reopening Lagos schools became imperative due to the newly announced date by West African Examination Council (WAEC) for the 2020 WASSCE which is scheduled to commence on the 17th of August, 2020. “Only SS3 and TEC3 students are permitted to resume at day and boarding schools on the 3rd of August, for revision classes and examinations,” Adefisayo noted. She, therefore, enjoined all schools in the state to follow the required public health guidelines and protocols for re-opening of schools for this category of students. Adefisayo stressed that while students in SS3 and TEC 3 will have the privilege of sitting for their examinations, the state government is considering the option of using first and second term exams performance or continuous assessment to promote students in other exit classes. The commissioner revealed that various meetings had been held with the stakeholders in the education, health and safety sectors in a bid to ensure that adequate precautionary measures were put in place to ensure the safety of the students before resumption. “The Office of Education Quality Assurance will be going round all the schools across the State to monitor the level of safety and protocol compliance expected to be put in place by both private and public schools,” Adefisayo stated. She, however, enjoined all schools in the state to follow the required public health guidelines and protocols for re-opening of schools for this category of students. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Lagos State Ministry of Education, yesterday, directed all students promoted to Senior Secondary School 3 in public Secondary Schools to resume on Sept.5 for a week-long coaching. September 1, 2016 In "News" Boarding schools, churches, mosques, event centres, others remain shut Warns against illegal testing centres Curfew remains 10pm to 4am Selected state workers still to work from home By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has announced the resumption of both public and private schools beginning from August 3,… July 3, 2020 In "News" Introduces online teachings during closure By Olasunkanmi Akoni Following the directive by the state government towards the closing of all schools, both public and private, in a bid to prevent pupils and staff from getting more vulnerable to the Coronavirus pandemic, Lagos State Government has called on school administrators to… March 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"