Ondo state Health Commissioner, Dr Wahab Adegbenro is dead. Reports from government quarters said he died of COVID-19. Family sources said the deceased commissioner had been battling with chronic diabetes before he now contacted the virus. Adegbenro was said to have died at the Federal Medical Center FMC in Owo after he was rushed there yesterday. Reports had it that he collapsed while attending to a patient in his hospital and later revived. He reportedly fell sick last on Monday and stayed indoor until he was rushed to the Federal Medical Centre where he died. Doctors at the hospital said he died of health complications coupled with being infected with COVID -19 pandemic. His death came few days after Governor Rotimi Akeredolu publicly announced that he has tested positive for COVID- 19. A neighbour said however the late medical doctor died in line of duty and his death had nothing to do with COVID-19. He said that “Adegbenro collapsed in line of duty while performing surgical operation on a patient at his private hospital. “Subsequently, he was rushed to another hospital where he was later pronounced dead”, a source disclosed. “lt was learnt that the Commissioner never got any positive COVID-19 test result until his sudden death but further tests are being carried out to confirm his status and cause of death.” Wahab Oluropo Adegbenro was born on 5th June 1955 at Ilara-mokin in Ifedore Local Government Area of Ondo State. After his elementary education at Muslim Primary School, Ilara-mokin. Between 1962 and 1967, Wahab attended Oyemekun Grammar School, Akure; and the University of Benin, Benin City. He holds the Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (M.B; B.S). He was a member of the Nigeria Medical Association; member of the Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria; Associate member, Royal College of General Practitioners of London; and member of Nigeria Guild of Medical Directors. He established Crown Hospital, Akure where he was the Chief Medical Director. Wahab was appointed the Vice Chairman, Ondo State Committee on Sports for the Disabled from 1997 to 1999; and later  chairman of the Committee from 1999 to 2002.  He was a Director, Ondo State Waste Management Board from 1999 to 2002 before he was appointed a Commissioner in Ondo State and was in charge of Culture and Tourism and later the Ministry of Health. Wahab before his death was the Chairman, Ondo State Council of All Progressive Congress (APC) Muslim Members. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Dayo Johnson - Akure The wife of Ondo governor, Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The wife's health status announcement is coming few days after her husband, state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, embarked on self-isolation after testing positive for COVID-19. Members of the House of Assembly… July 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Dayo Johnson - Akure A former Chairman of the Nigeria Medical Association in Ondo state, Dr. Michael Adeyeri has died of COVID-19 complications. Adeyeri died on Thursday, at the Federal Medical Centre, FMC, in Owo. His death is coming a week after the death of the state Health Commissioner, Dr.… July 10, 2020 In "Health" Dayo Johnson - Akure THE deceased Ondo State Health Commissioner, Dr Wahab Adegbenro, would be committed to mother earth this morning (Friday). A family source informed Vanguard that he would be buried in his native town, Ilara Mokin, in lfedore council area of the state by 10 am according to… July 3, 2020 In "News"