CHIEF Press Secretary to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, yesterday, said the governor did not at any time direct members of government and civil servants to undergo COVID-19 test. Reacting to reports in the social media, Ifeajika in a statement, said the governor’s position since the global pandemic spread to Delta, had always been to appeal to citizens to adhere to the protocols prescribed by Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, to stem the spread of the virus in the state. He said the governor had also continued to advise that anyone feeling unwell should go to any of the COVID-19 centres in the state for proper check and treatment, when necessary. Saying there was no time the governor gave any directive either by internal memo or any statement that government officials should go for a test for any disease, including COVID-19, he also distanced his office and the government from another social media report to the effect that the entire media team of the governor tested positive for COVID-19, culminating to the shutdown of the Press Unit. Ifeajika said: “All the reports are deliberate falsehood, and the purveyors are hereby challenged to publish the alleged internal memo and the signatory.” Meanwhile, the state Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, weekend, recounted his experience battling with the Covid-19 pandemic. Thanking Deltans and other Nigerians who prayed fervently for his recovery, Aniagwu explained that he voluntarily went for the test being in the frontline of sensitisation and enforcement of the state government’s directives on measures to curb the spread of the pandemic. Vanguard Chief Press Secretary to the Governor of Delta, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, has said that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa did not at any time direct members of government and civil servants to undergo the COVID-19 test. July 12, 2020 In "News" Perez Brisibe GOVERNOR Ifeanyi Okowa and his wife, Edith Okowa, have both tested positive to COVID-19. The Governor made the disclosure on his Facebook page on Wednesday morning. He said: "My wife and I have tested positive for COVID-19. We are well and continuing with our isolation/medication. We thank you… July 1, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Festus Ahon - Asaba Secretary to the Delta State Government, SSG, Mr Chiedu Ebie, and the State Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, were among the 83 new cases of Covid-19 recorded in the State, Saturday night. The Chief Press Secretary to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, who… June 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"