Teenage striker Gabriel Martinelli has signed a new long-term contract with Arsenal. The 19-year-old joined the London club from Ituano last July and has scored 10 goals in 26 appearances in his first season in England. Arsenal have rewarded the Brazil Under-23 international with a new deal two days after fellow teenager Bukayo Saka committed his future to the Premier League side. Martinelli will not play again this season after undergoing knee surgery, but Gunners head coach Mikel Arteta believes he has a bright future. Arteta said: “I am very happy that Gabi has signed a new contract with us. “He is a very talented young player and he has impressed us with his performances, attitude and work-rate. “We are looking forward to getting him back to full fitness and watching his development at our club.” Martinelli posted on Instagram: “I am very happy to commit my future to this great club and I would like to thank Arsenal and all the fans for this fantastic year. “It is the first of many and I can’t wait to be back to play a part in the exciting seasons to come! “‘Play for the name on the front of the shirt and they’ll remember the name on the back.’ @tonyadamsofficial.” Fotmob Vanguard Under-fire Arsenal defender David Luiz has a vital role to play at the club, according to head coach Mikel Arteta. The Brazil international has come in for criticism throughout his time with the Gunners and his detractors were given more ammunition following an error-strewn outing against Manchester City last month.… July 4, 2020 In "Sports" Martin Keown has slammed Arsenal after an “unprofessional” performance as they crashed out of the Europa League to Olympiacos on Thursday. Youssef El Arabi’s goal in the 119th minute of extra time took the Greek side through to the last 16 on away goals. With just seconds left of the… February 28, 2020 In "Sports" Bukayo Saka has finally signed a new long-term deal with Arsenal after Mikel Arteta convinced the 18-year-old to stay at the Emirates. The Gunners' boss was all too aware of the growing interest in the London-born teen who he regards as key to his future plans. Saka, who came through… July 3, 2020 In "Sports"