THE Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety, NIMASA, has directed stevedoring companies to commence operations at their dedicated location or face sanctions. In a statement signed by Mr. Philip Kyanet, NIMASA’s Head of Corporate Communications the Director General, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, said all duly registered stevedoring companies with operational areas allotted by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), which are yet to start operation, should mobilise to their work locations immediately. The directive, according to the agency, is in line with the Stevedoring Regulation, 2014,   developed pursuant to the NIMASA Act, 2007. NIMASA also notified all operators of ports, jetties, onshore or offshore oil and gas or bonded terminals, Inland Container Depots (ICDs), offshore dock terminals, dry ports and platforms, and other work locations to grant duly appointed stevedoring companies access to their premises for commencement of operations. He also said only corporate bodies duly registered in Nigeria would be allowed to employ dock labour or engage in stevedoring work on board or from ships. Such corporate entities must have satisfied the requirements for registration specified in the Stevedoring Regulation, 2014, and obtained a Stevedoring license from NIMASA. “Every dock labour employer or stevedoring company shall provide proper and safe working conditions for the convenience and proper working of its employees and ensure that all stevedoring plants and equipment supplied and being used in their operations are safe and in good condition,”  the Agency stated. Stevedoring companies by the notice were mandated to provide adequate insurance cover for health, personal injury, loss of earnings, and compensation, relating to any incident affecting dockworkers or stevedores in the course of the work of the dock labour employer or the stevedoring company. Jamoh, warned that the consequences for non-compliance with the guidelines set out in the Stevedoring Regulation, 2014, shall be enforced, in addition to other penalties, such as detention of vessels, sealing of operational area or work location, and prosecution. THE Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety, NIMASA, has directed stevedoring companies to commence operations at their dedicated location or face sanctions. July 16, 2020 In "News" THE Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, MWUN, has accused the management of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, of failing in its duty of ensuring the use of registered dockworkers at some terminals at the ports and most private jetties. September 23, 2016 In "Business" LAGOS—LEADERS of Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, MWUN,  yesterday directed members to withdraw their services and shut ports operations nationwide from Wednesday over unpaid wages to  Dockworkers, among other issues. June 28, 2019 In "News"