Singer Davido has added Akinmayokun Awodumila, popularly known as May D to the list of artists signed to his record label DMW Vanguard reports. May D has managed to remain relevant in the music industry despite not enjoying as much attention as he used to get and joining Davido’s label looks like a move in the right direction. He took to social media to make the announcement by writing, “My New Family, I’m So Excited! PROBLEM #DMW #30BG #CONFAMENT  @davidoofficial ”   My New Family,  I'm So Excited ! PROBLEM  #DMW #30BG #CONFAMENT  @davidoofficial A post shared by  May D Ti Gbe de! (@mrmayd) on Jul 17, 2020 at 11:40pm PDT  May D recently called out P-Square lamenting the fate he suffered when he worked with them as a signed artist on their Square Records He has to his credit songs like Ile Ijo and Gat Me High both from his Chapter One album released in 2013 and a feature on P-Square’s Chop My Money remix. See how some Nigerians reacted on social media to the announcement below… Davido: shout “Shekpe” if u want to join DMW May D : pic.twitter.com/s61dOsmARr — angeli Malaika  (@534_angeli) July 18, 2020  Davido is offline and he keeps lifting people, at least you can’t call this one clout The same people who laughed at May D few months ago, are the same people congratulating him today. Keep working and Pray for Grace. pic.twitter.com/sY2Ki7nwHG — Biyi The Plug  (@BiyiThePlug) July 18, 2020  Because of Davido, maybe May D may be able to rise again#10over10 pic.twitter.com/Bdt1v1Ctrd — Uncle Majek Fashek (@ij_kush) July 18, 2020  May D, please tell Cynthia Morgan that she doesn’t need a national ID, for Davido to welcome her into his family. Wait oo, OBO nah zobo be dat pic.twitter.com/VQ031ylP6h — Nedd Michael™ (@NeddMichaels) July 18, 2020  Cynthia Morgan trying Davido’s number again after seeing the news of him signing May D pic.twitter.com/0mpxjlxYmg — BELMONT (@koladeeeee) July 18, 2020  Cynthia Morgan trying Davido’s number again after seeing the news of him signing May D pic.twitter.com/0mpxjlxYmg — BELMONT (@koladeeeee) July 18, 2020  VANGUARD Ever since fast rising music act, Yonda, born Adeniran Abayomi Adetunji, registered his presence on the Nigerian music scene few months ago with his hit song, Bad Girl Riri, featuring Mayorkun, there has been series of controversies surrounding his alleged recording contract with the Davido-led record label, Davido Music Worldwide. July 20, 2018 In "Music" Two months into year 2018, DMW baddest boss, Davido and YBNL boss, Olamide are already counting their blessings. The duo are excited about their latest endorsement deals as they could not hide their joy on social media. February 9, 2018 In "Entertainment" When DMW signed music act, Tobechukwu Victor Okoh, a.k.a Peruzzi, lost the Best New Artiste award category to Teniola Apata, at the Soundcity MVP awards which held in January 2019, he wasted no time in sharing his dissatisfaction, which in turn sparked off mixed reactions from music pundits, fans and… June 11, 2019 In "Entertainment"