Allegation of inducement of delegates ahead of Wednesday’s governorship primary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo state is causing ripples in the party. A group, Grassroot Movement fingered the defected deputy governor of the state, Hon. Agboola Ajayi of making an offer of $1000 to each of the over 2000 delegates in the party. But in a swift response, Babatope Okeowo, the Chief Press Secretary to Ajayi described the allegation as beer parlour gossip. Okeowo said “we don’t react to beer parlour gossips, the deputy governor has been meeting with all delegates and has never promised to give anybody any money. “We don’t need to buy their conscience before voting for the deputy governor.” However, the coordinator of the group, Taiwo Akinfehinwa while speaking with newsmen in Akure said that they ” “won’t be surprise if an exercise that is supposed to be an avenue to choose a credible candidate for the party end up in the hands of the highest bidder. Akinfehinwa alleged that “the deputy governor has perfected his plans on how each of his coordinator on the 18 local governments would distribute this money to the delegates before the commencement of the primary election. “We have been informed by some of our party delegates that the deputy governor, Hon. Agboola Ajayi has allegedly promised to offer each delegate $1000. On Wednesday in Ondo State, we may experience rain of dollar during the PDP governorship primary. “Some of these delegates are already jubilating to cash out, while others felt that selling their votes may deny the party the great opportunity to produce a credible candidate and which may later spell a doom on the party during the main election. Akinfehinwa therefore said ” we are calling on our delegates not to give room for money bag politicians to decide the fate of the party. He added that “They should all remember that Agboola Ajayi cannot wash himself off from the maladministration of Governor Akeredolu Oluwarotimi’s government where he spent three and half years as second in command.” Vanguard News Nigeria. ...Doctored list favours defected deputy governor — Aspirants By Dayo Johnson NINE days to the governorship primary of Peoples Democratic Party in Ondo state, seven aspirants have rejected the alleged doctored delegates list for the election. The seven of the aspirants include, Bode Ayorinde , Ebiseni Sola, Eyitayo Jegede, Kunlere… July 13, 2020 In "Politics" By Dayo Johnson FIVE governorship aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party from the Southern Senatorial district in Ondo state have vowed not to step down for the defected deputy governor. Hon Agboola Ajayi ahead of the July 22, party primary. Reports also said that they have rebuffed alleged plans by… July 8, 2020 In "Politics" As governorship campaign video of deputy rents air Party leaders consider deputy’s impeachment Dayo Johnson - Akure The behind the scenes face between governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and his deputy Hon Agboola Ajayi took a new dimension as a campaign video jingle announced his governorship ambition on the… April 23, 2020 In "News"