 ABUJA- PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has felicitated with multi-talented artiste and veteran broadcaster, Chief Julie Coker, on her 80th birthday.  The President in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina in Abuja, Sunday, said he was joining the creative industry to celebrate the iconic culture ambassador, musician and author.  According to the statement,  “President Buhari congratulates the Yeye Eto of Lagos for a sterling career in journalism and performing arts, coming into limelight as a female broadcaster in Africa’s first television station, Western Nigerian Television (WNTV, Ibadan), which started transmission on October 31, 1959, and sustaining the grace in Nigerian Television Service, (NTV, Lagos), now Nigerian Television Authority (NTA).  “As a former beauty queen, Miss Western Nigeria Competition, 1958, and runner-up at a Miss Nigeria contest, the President believes Chief  Coker’s talent brought her into the spotlight at an early age, and has consistently sustained her growing influence over the years, both within and outside the country.  “President Buhari rejoices with family members, friends and professional associates of the exceptional  broadcaster, who continues to project the country to the world by accepting leadership roles in culture and tourism in the United Kingdom and United States.”  He prayed that the Almighty God will grant Chief Coker longer life, good heath and more grace to pursue and actualize her dreams of making life better for others. Vanguard By Levinus Nwabughiogu ABUJA-President Muhammadu Buhari has felicitated with legendary newscaster, presenter and first African female to appear on television, Anike Agbaje Williams, on her 80th birthday. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina on Saturday, President Buhari prayed God to grant the… October 29, 2016 In "News" The member representing Warri Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives Hon. Thomas Ereyitomi has congratulated ace Television Broadcaster, Chief Julie Coker on the occasion of her 80th birthday anniversary. July 26, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari, on Saturday, sent congratulatory message to a renowned newscaster, presenter and the first African female to appear on television, Anike Agbaje-Williams, on her 80th birthday. October 29, 2016 In "News"