THE Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, has warned vessels against anchoring at the Secured Anchorage Area, SAA, threatening that any ship found within that axis will face sanction. In a notice to mariners, the NPA said that all shipping agents, shop owners and charterers are to ensure that vessels are anchored anywhere within the nation’s territorial waters with no financial commitment. Confirming the development, Engr Adams Jatto, General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communication department of the NPA, told Vanguard Maritime Report that the vessels have been warned to stay clear of the secured anchorage, stressing that if they must anchor within the nation’s territorial waters, they can do that without incurring any cost. Part of the notice reads: “This is to inform all that the Nigerian Ports Authority is working with the Nigerian Navy, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, and the Marine Police to ensure safe and secured Nigerian territorial waters. “The Secured Anchorage Area, SAA, located at Centre Point Coordinate 06º  17’30 N003º  is also included. Amendment to  BA Chart 1381 is in progress. Mariners are advised to navigate freely with no cost/financial commitment till further notice. “Owners, agents and charterers should ensure that the content of the Lagos Pilotage District Notice to mariners are made known to their Masters and persons in charge of their vessels and marine operations within the Jurisdiction of this Pilotage District.” Vanguard Piracy By Ediri Ejoh PIRACY: The priority placed on safety of ships, cargo, and personnel by the global shipping community cannot be overemphasised. Thus, implementing measures to enhance security without impeding the timely flow of legitimate commerce is critical to any nation that depends largely on the operations of the blue… November 24, 2019 In "News" A group pushing for security of shipping services in the country has petitioned the National Assembly over the  pronouncement by the Nigerian Ports Authority, (NPA), instructing shipping operators to stop paying for personalised security services offered in the Secured Ancourage Area, (SAA)  operated by the Nigerian Navy in collaboration with… October 27, 2019 In "News" CONTRARY to claims by officials of the Nigeria Navy, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, and Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, there are strong indications that the maritime agencies approved the establishment and operations of the controversial Lagos Anchorage. November 21, 2016 In "Business"