Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has turned down President Trump’s invitation to meet this week alongside Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador in celebration of their new trade deal. Citing scheduling concerns, a spokesman for Trudeau announced Monday that the Canadian leader would be skipping the White House gathering so he could instead take part in cabinet meetings and “the long-planned sitting of Parliament” in his country. “The entry-into-force of the new NAFTA is good for Canada, the United States, and Mexico,” the rep said in a statement. “It will help ensure that North America emerges stronger from the COVID-19 pandemic.” “We wish the United States and Mexico well at Wednesday’s meeting.” While Trudeau remains in Ottawa, Lopez Obrador and Trump will meet at the White House to mark the start of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, which went into effect July 1. López Obrador has come under heavy criticism in Mexico for making his first foreign trip as president to the US, given Trump’s rhetoric on issues such as a border wall and immigrants. But the Mexican president has maintained a cordial relationship with Trump and went so far as to publicly encourage Trudeau to take part in the meeting, to no avail. Speaking to reporters Monday, Lopez Obrador said Trudeau had asked to talk with him and that they planned to speak by phone later that day. López Obrador began calling for Trudeau to participate in the meeting after the Canadian prime minister signaled Friday he would decline the invitation. Trudeau cited concerns over the threats of new aluminium and steel tariffs from the US. NY Post Vanguard Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Saturday that Canada and the U.S. had agreed to keep their border closed for all non-essential travel for another 30 days. April 19, 2020 In "News" The leaders of the United States, Mexico and Canada on Friday signed a huge regional trade deal to replace the old NAFTA, denounced by President Donald Trump as a killer of US jobs. November 30, 2018 In "News" Canadian Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau has won a second term in office after the national elections. Although, he lost the majority following different scandals that unveiled during warm-up for the election. Liberal party (Trudeau's party) won the majority seat in the Parliament, making him the more competent to for a… October 22, 2019 In "Foreign"