Bruno Fernandes has become only the seventh player to win two successive Premier League Player of the Month awards. Mohamed Salah, Jamie Vardy, Harry Kane, Cristiano Ronaldo, Dennis Bergkamp and Robbie Fowler are the only other players to have achieved the feat. The Manchester United midfielder, who joined from Sporting CP in January, has made a remarkable start to life in the Premier League, winning both of the Player of the Month awards that he was eligible for. Fernandes claimed the gong for February after an impressive first month at Old Trafford, before continuing that sparkling form into March. He picked up where he left off when the Premier League resumed last month following the coronavirus-enforced suspension, with his performances across March and June taken into account for the latest award. In United’s five matches across those two months, Fernandes scored four goals and set up one more. The Portugal international has helped transform United’s fortunes since arriving from Sporting, with Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men unbeaten in 15 matches since his debut. Fernandes beat Conor Coady, Danny Ings, Raul Jimenez, Allan Saint-Maximin and his United team-mate Anthony Martial to the June prize, while he also took home the Goal of the Month award. The goal in question was his second in the 3-0 win at Brighton and Hove Albion on June 30, as he volleyed home from Mason Greenwood’s pinpoint cross at the end of a rapid counter-attack. While it was not a double success for United with the Manager of the Month award, it is the first time the two prizes have gone to Portuguese candidates in the same month. Wolves boss Nuno Espirito Santo won the manager’s accolade for a second time, as he presided over a five-match unbeaten streak either side of the coronavirus hiatus. He left Steve Bruce, Frank Lampard and Solskjaer in his wake, though Wolves have lost both of their matches in July, denting their hopes of a top-four finish as they trail fourth-placed Leicester City by seven points with four games to go. Fotmob Vanguard Odion Ighalo has lost Manchester United March’s Player of the Month award to his fellow January arrival Bruno Fernandes. This month, Ighalo scored three goals and provided one assist for the Old Trafford outfit, including his brace in their victory against Derby County in an FA Cup tie before… March 22, 2020 In "News" Bruno Fernandes thinks Manchester United should be “mad” that they only managed to draw 1-1 against Everton over the weekend if they want to secure a Champions League place. Dominic Calvert-Lewin’s 13th league goal of the season after just three minutes came courtesy of a rebounded David de Gea clearance… March 3, 2020 In "Sports" Bruno Fernandes was “scared” but “crying through happiness” when his move to Man United came to fruition. Fernandes joined Man United from Sporting Lisbon in a deal worth an initial £47m in January. The midfielder has been something of a revelation and could well be the perfect marriage counselor for… June 4, 2020 In "Sports"