Josep Maria Bartomeu believes Xavi will become Barcelona boss one day, though he has given his support to current coach Quique Setien. Xavi, who holds the record for the most Barca appearances of all time, has long been linked with the top job at Camp Nou, where he spent 17 trophy-laden years as a player. He was considered one of the front-runners to take the post when Ernesto Valverde was sacked in January only to suggest he was not ready, which led Barca to turn to Setien. Xavi has since said he wants to be Barcelona coach and has been tipped to succeed the under-fire Setien, but on Sunday the ex-Barcelona midfielder signed a contract extension as coach of Qatari club Al-Sadd. And though the jury remains out on Setien given his side have fallen four points behind Real Madrid in LaLiga, Bartomeu has given him his backing. “Setien will continue, obviously,” he told RAC1. “I do not regret Valverde’s change. The team needed a boost. Setien knows our DNA, the model and has brought new airs and new ideas. “The coaches are obviously subject to the results, but I am happy with the evolution of the team.” On Xavi’s coaching credentials, Bartomeu added: “[Xavi is] a great coach who I am sure will one day come to Barca.” Barca’s poor form and infighting behind the scenes has again led to speculation that Lionel Messi could do the unthinkable and actually depart the club when his contract expires in 2021. Bartomeu has remained steadfast in his belief that the 33-year-old will retire with the Blaugrana and said the club will do all they can to extend his deal. “He has a contract until 2021 – normally we do not explain the conversations with the players but it is evident that we have an obligation to renew him,” he said. “Messi is the best player in the world.” Fotmob Vanguard Barcelona have replaced their coach Ernesto Valverde with Quique Setien according to a club statement. The decision to remove Valverde was taken during a board meeting that lasted more than four hours at Camp Nou on Monday afternoon. An official statement was issued on Monday night, with a press conference… January 14, 2020 In "Sports" Former Barcelona star Xavi Hernandez signed on as head coach of Qatari club Al-Sadd for one more year Sunday, putting to bed rumours of an imminent move back to the Spanish side. There had been media speculation in recent days that World Cup winner Xavi, 40, was being lined up… July 7, 2020 In "Sports" Newly appointed Barcelona coach, Quique Sentien could have missed the opportunity of managing the Catalan giants, after interviewing for the role as Watford boss in December. The Premier League club was rooted to the bottom of the log under Quique Sanchez Flores, and his sacking meant that the Pozzo family… January 15, 2020 In "Sports"