Genk manager Hannes Wolf has confirmed that his Nigerian-born player, Paul Onuachu will resume training today after recovering from the coronavirus. Last week, the lanky forward tested positive to Covid-19 on his return from Nigeria to the Luminus Arena ahead of their friendly game against Eendracht Termien, which was subsequently cancelled. The Super Eagles striker has since been in quarantine but has not fully recovered from the virus and has  tested negative after another round of test. The 26-year-old forward also missed the Blue and White’s victory over Royal Union Saint-Gilloise in Wednesday’s friendly. Wolf has confirmed the forward can now rejoin the rest of his squad ahead of their clash against Dutch side Excelsior. “But Friday he [Onuachu] will just train with the group. Paul can also compete against Excelsior on Friday in the exhibition match,” Wolf told Het Nieuws Blad. Onuachu scored 10 goals and provided two assists in 29 appearances across all competitions to help Genk finish seventh on the Belgian First Division A table last season. The forward teamed up with the Luminus Arena outfit last summer from Danish side Midtjylland where he spent seven years and bagged 52 goals in 135 league games. His fine form in front of goal caught the attention of Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr, who handed him a call-up in March 2019. The 26-year-old striker made his debut for Nigeria against Egypt in a friendly and has now featured six times for the West Africans. VANGUARD Super Eagles striker, Paul Onuachu, has contracted the deadly Coronavirus  (COVID-19). The player tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, while the result of his mates, Stephen Odey and Cyril Dessers at Belgian club Genk, came out negative. “In the run-up to the first exhibition game of the season, the entire… July 9, 2020 In "Sports" Genk are pleased to have their African star players, Paul Onuachu and Eboue Kouassi back in Belgium to join the rest the squad for the 2021 season preparations. Onuachu and Kouassi left for their respective countries following the outbreak of the Coronavirus in March. Before the forced break, Onuachu scored… July 2, 2020 In "Sports" Denmark-based Paul Onuachu scored within the first minute Tuesday to give Nigeria a 1-0 victory over Egypt in a high-profile African international friendly in Asaba. March 27, 2019 In "News"