In an apparent fore state of what is to come the way of the suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, the Presidency has flushed out all the operatives considered to be too loyal and committed to the embattled officer. The 20 officials who the government has identified as ‘Magu boys’ comprise zonal and sectional heads that were the arrowheads of the EFCC’s investigations, arrest and prosecution over the years. These officials, according to a close source, are believed to be handling ‘very sensitive corruption cases’ some of which involve very senior government officials and politicians in both the ruling APC and the opposition PDP as well as top businessmen and allies of politicians across the country. Magu boys are likely to be replaced with another set of officers to be selected by the Presidency after the emergence of a new EFCC boss. The source told Vanguard that the officials, whose offences were not disclosed as at the time of filing the report last night, were redeployed to the Police Headquarters based on the instruction of the Federal Government. The official said: “Please don’t forget that these are very brilliant officers who were on top of very sensitive cases involving all categories of politicians and businessmen across the country who sacrificed their health, time and safety to investigate economic and financial crimes and bring the culprits to book but they have now been flushed in one fell swoop. “They still have a career to pursue in the police force and for this reason, their names are undisclosed for now and no offence has been levied against any of them by the federal government as we speak,” the official said. It will be recalled that Magu had been allowed to appear before the Jusice Ayo Salami panel on Monday and was asked general questions based on issues raised against him but the panel is yet to avail him with the details of the accusations levelled against him. Shortly after taking him on, the panel adjourned sitting till Tuesday next week when it is expected Magu would be formally confronted with the allegations and his response taken. The panel had insisted that it would only allow Magu to speak after hearing from all those who have something to say against him. Vanguard News Nigeria. THE Presidential  panel probing suspended Acting Chairman of the Economic & Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, has to account for N5 billion election fund, in addition to another sum of N2.5 billion, called recruitment fund. July 13, 2020 In "News" Interrogation of embattled Acting Chairman of the Economic & Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu entered Day Four yesterday with the Presidential panel led by Justice Ayo Isa Salami grilling select operatives of the commission. July 10, 2020 In "News" Embattled Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, was yesterday confronted with more allegations. July 9, 2020 In "News"