President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Rev Yakubu Pam as the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission (NCPC). Until his appointment, Rev Pam was the Chairman of the Plateau State Christian Pilgrims Board. Born on 20th February, 1960 in Gyel, Jos South LGA of Plateau State, Rev Pam holds a first degree in Christian Education. As an ordained Minister, Rev Pam brings to the position more than 30 years of leadership experience in the Christian community, coupled with a deep understanding of promoting inter-religious harmony and conflict resolution in the northern parts of the country. The cleric has held many leadership positions in the Church, including Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) of Northern Nigeria (which includes the 19 Northern States and Abuja) from 2016 to date, Vice President, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, 2013 to date and District Superintendent, Jos mainland Assemblies of Nigeria, 2010 to date. A statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu further said that Rev. Pam served as Chairman, Plateau State Inter-Religious Council; and Chairman, Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) Committee, Plateau State. His appointment took effect from 26th June, 2020 for a period of five years. President Buhari urged the Executive Secretary NCPC to sustain his reconciliatory pre-disposition in his new position. Vanguard News Nigeria. Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, has said the sudden termination of Rev. Tor Ujah's appointment as the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC) is suspicious. August 27, 2019 In "News" Christians Association of Nigeria, CAN, in the 19 Northern states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, has accused the Federal Government of marginalization of Northern Christians in its appointments. July 11, 2016 In "News" ABUJA—SADDEND by the incessant killings of Christians in the northern part of the country, Governor Simon Lalong and the leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, in the 19 northern states, yesterday, met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, demanding a review of the country’s security architecture to… July 6, 2018 In "News"