Unidentified gunmen reportedly killed a youth leader in Umuebule Community, Etche Local Government Area of Rivers State, Godwin Njoku. The youth leader, Biggy, as he was popularly called, was the immediate past youth president of the Rivers’ community. It would be recalled that the Rivers State Police Command had arrested a suspected serial killer, Ndubuisi Anthony, from the said community, last week, and recovered the decomposing body and three human skulls from his septic tank. The cause of the killing was still unknown at press time, but a source in the area alleged that it was an assassination. Another source in the community, who gave his name simply as Prince, said the murder might not be unconnected with issues of land tussles and other communal issues in the area. Prince also decried the absence of security men and good road network in the area, adding that both were responsible for the prevalence of crime in the area. Meanwhile, the Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command, DSP. Nnamdi Omoni, said the police are aware of the murder. Omoni said at the moment information on the development was still sketchy, noting that investigation was ongoing. He said: “I can confirm the development to you. But at the moment, the information I have is still sketchy.” Vanguard News Nigeria. There is panic in two communities of Rivers State following the killing of a vigilante head and shooting of two other persons in the state by gunmen. August 15, 2019 In "News" OMOKU—UNIDENTIFIED gunmen have run amok in Rivers State, killing at least 15 persons at Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area, ONELGA, of the state in the last few weeks. The gory massacre has sent shivers down the spine of residents. The armed men, apparently seething with rage that over 200 cultists renounced… September 29, 2015 In "News" OZUOBA— gunmen suspected to be armed robbers, have killed a man of about 36 years at Ozuoba in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State. October 30, 2015 In "News"