The Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, on Saturday said plans were underway to summon the Edo Council of Traditional Rulers and Chiefs to pray for a peaceful election in the state. The Oba made this known when Gov. Godwin Obaseki led some governors, senators and other top-ranking officials of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) campaign council visited him in his palace in Benin. The Oba said God and his ancestors have been answering his prayers whenever he prayed, adding that the forthcoming governorship election would not be an exception. “I remember when I visited Governor Obaseki in his office, he asked me to pray for him to be able to complete his tenure in office and I did. “And today he has not been impeached despite the ups and downs and I thank my God and my ancestors for answering my prayers. “When I also visited Rivers and Cross River states, the governors there asked me to intervene in the Edo political crisis and I said I will not give up. “And we have been praying and I thank God and our ancestors that we had the primary elections in the state and there was no bloodshed and it was so peaceful. “And now as we are about going to the governorship election proper,  I am going to summon Edo State Council of Traditional Rulers and Chiefs to pray for a peaceful election in the state. “We all know that there is nothing prayers cannot do. It is prayers that have been keeping the country going,” the monarch said. Earlier, the National Chairman of the party, Chief Secondus Uche, told the Benin monarch that they decided to come and pay him homage and to also seek his blessings and permission to go on with their campaign in the state. Also, Governor Nyesom Wike of River State thanked the monarch for being a shining light in the country, adding that his prayers have kept the country together. Wike told the monarch that after the September 19 governorship election, they would also come to say thank you to him. Also speaking, Obaseki told the monarch that he was in the palace to seek his blessings for his campaigns and election in the state. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. IN what could be described as a rare privilege to any governor of Edo state, Oba of Benin, OMO N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare 11, yesterday paid a historic visit to Governor Godwin Obaseki at Government House for about four hours, with his senior chiefs, declaring his unalloyed support… January 21, 2017 In "News" HISTORY was made, yesterday, in Benin Kingdom, as the 40th Oba in the Oranmiyan dynasty was crowned. October 21, 2016 In "Headlines" OMON N’OBA Ne Edo, Uku Akpolokpolor, Oba Erediauwa has joined his ancestors. He was the 38th Oba of Benin Kingdom. A terse announcement yesterday in Benin by the Iyase of Benin Kingdom (the Traditional Prime Minister), Chief Sam Igbe who spoke in Bini dialect said, “OSORHUE BUNRUN; Oba Erediauwa of… April 30, 2016 In "Just Human"