The Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi has observed that the investigations of loans taken by the Federal Government could send wrong signal to the lenders. Amaechi made the observation at an investigative hearing organised by the House of Representatives Committee on Treaties, Protocols and Agreements in Abuja. He said that the investigation could cause foreign partners to withdraw such loan facilities which have negative effect on Nigeria’s infrastructural development. The minister said that he has raised the concerns over the ongoing investigation with the Speaker of the house, Rep. Femi Gbajabimila. Amaechi explained that the hearing could stop the loan facility the Federal Government ”is seeking for the completion of the Lagos-Ibadan and Kano rail projects”. He, however, recommended that the hearing should be shifted to December when the loan facility would have been acquired. The Chairman of the committee, Rep. Nicholas Ossai (PDP-Delta) said that the committee is empowered to conduct overnight before, during or after loan facilities are acquired. He said that the committee seeks to review all Nigeria’s bilateral loan agreement to ensure the country is not shortchanged. NAN Vanguard News Nigeria By Tordue Salem - Abuja The House of Representatives has invited the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Ameachi, his communication and finance counterparts, Dr Ali Isa Pantani and Mrs Zainab Ahmed to provide answers on $500million loan to be sourced from the Export-Import Bank of China for railway lines in the… July 28, 2020 In "News" Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, yesterday, debunked the allegation of non-inclusion of South-East states in the rail line projects of the railway networks across the country for which $5.8 billion loan is being sought from China. June 9, 2017 In "News" Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, said, yesterday, that the Federal Government had secured $7. 5 billion loan for the construction of standard rail gauge from Lagos to Kano February 7, 2017 In "News"