Zimbabwe’s President Emmerson Mnangagwa said Tuesday he has sacked his health minister, who has been charged with corruption over illegally awarding a $20 million contract for coronavirus testing. Obadiah Moyo, 66, was arrested last month following an investigation by the southern African country’s anti-graft commission. He has been released on bail and is scheduled to appear in court on July 31. Presidential chief secretary Misheck Sibanda said Tuesday that Mnangagwa removed Moyo from office for “conduct inappropriate for a government minister”. Moyo is accused of awarding a $20 million contract to Drax Consult SAGL, a Dubai-based company created just months ago, to supply personal protective equipment and COVID-19 test kits. After Zimbabwe’s opposition condemned the deal, the government cancelled all contracts with the company, according to local media reports. Moyo also faces charges in two other cases, which date back to last year for the supply of general medical equipment to public hospitals. The landlocked southern African country has recorded more than 700 coronavirus cases, including nine deaths. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa said Tuesday he has sacked his health minister, who has been charged with corruption over illegally awarding a $20 million contract for coronavirus testing. Obadiah Moyo, 66, was arrested last month following an investigation by the southern African country's anti-graft commission. He has been released on… July 7, 2020 In "News" Zimbabwe's health minister was Saturday charged with corruption related to the irregular awarding of a big contract to a new Dubai-based company for coronavirus testing and protective kits. Obadiah Moyo, 66, was arrested Friday night following investigations brought by the country's anti-graft commission, which accused him of criminal abuse of… June 21, 2020 In "Foreign" A Zimbabwe court, on Saturday, released Health Minister, Obadiah Moyo, on bail following his arrest the previous day on allegations of corruption regarding a $60 million deal to procure COVID-19 tests and equipment. Sitting in Harare, the court’s magistrate granted Moyo bail for 50,000 Zimbabwe dollars ($2,000). The bail was… June 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"