Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has urged the Nigerian Army to assist in reducing the clash between farmers and herdsmen in the State. Ikpeazu, who stated this while receiving the General Officer Commanding, 82 Division of the Nigeria Army, Enugu, Major General Lasisi Adegboye, at Government House, Umuahia, commended the Army for assisting the government in protecting lives and properties as well as working in synergy with other security agencies to maintain peace in the state. The governor, represented by his Deputy, Sir Ude Oko Chukwu, explained that his administration has continued to engage traditional rulers and president-general of various town unions in the State to continue to maintain peace in their communities, even when herdsmen are wreaking havoc on farmers. He pledged the commitment of the government to completing the projects at the 144 Battalion Barracks, Asa in liaison with the Nigeria Army and urged them to assist the government in enforcing the wearing of face masks and adhering to all the protocols to check the spread of the COVID 19 pandemic in the state. Earlier, the General Officer Commanding, 82 Division, Nigeria Army, Enugu, Major General, Lasisi Adegboye, stressed the need for Government, Army, and traditional rulers to embark on more proactive to check the rising cases of land disputes and clashes between farmers and herdsmen in the state. Major General Adegboye appealed to the State Government to assist the military complete the projects initiated at the 144 Battalion Barracks, Asa, as well as provide them with vehicles to ease their operations. Vanguard Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia has promised to give N1 million financial assistance to anyone that would invest in ranches and animal husbandry in any part of the state. December 6, 2017 In "Business" FOLLOWING Sunday’s bloody clash between herdsmen and natives of Umuobasiukwu community in Bende Local Government Area of Abia State which left one person dead, the people of Umuobasiukwu have alleged that the police have embarked on mass arrest of their people. March 17, 2017 In "News" THE Abia State Committee on Farmers/Herdsmen Conflict Resolution has called on the Sarikin Hausa and the leadership of Miyetti Allah in the State to summon the Fulani herdsmen and educate them on the need to ensure that their cattle do not invade farm land to destroy crops in communities in… January 19, 2018 In "News"