The former National Chairman of All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has said he regrets his mistake of supporting Mr. Godwin Obaseki for the governorship in 2016. Oshiomhole said this, on Sunday, in Benin while addressing some members of the party. He disclosed that he supported the governorship aspiration of Obaseki in 2016 to ensure the continuity of his projects and programmes. He said: “I have made my honest mistakes. Only God is perfect. I am now 68 years. I have come to apologise for the mistake of supporting Obaseki in 2016. “I am in Edo to repair my mistakes. God had a reason for what happened to Ize-Iyamu in 2016. Leaving as the National Chairman of APC is to give me enough time to correct my errors. “Obaseki pretended for almost eight years, while he did not believe in what I was doing as the governor. “In 2007, Ize-Iyamu stepped down for me. In 2012, he was the Director-General of my re-election campaign organisation and we won in all the 18 local government areas of Edo. I will work for the election of Ize-Iyamu.” The former governor urged the governorship candidate of APC in Edo to keep to his promises. He expressed optimism that he (Ize-Iyamu) would emerge victorious on September 19 governorship election in the state. Speaking earlier, Ize-Iyamu stated that the Edo governor had not done well in almost four years and had lost focus, while urging people of the state to massively vote for him on September 19. The incumbent, Governor Obaseki, who has since defected to Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, to actualise his second term ambition after losing out in the race for APC ticket, will square up with Ize-Iyamu for the governorship poll on September 19. It would be recalled that Ize-Iyamu, who also in December, defected to APC, was the PDP flag bearer in 2016. NAN Vanguard News Nigeria By Gabriel Enogholase - Benin Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has said that it was amusing seeing the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, kneeling down to ask for forgiveness for supporting Governor Godwin Obaseki in 2016. Edo State Publicity… July 27, 2020 In "Politics" The former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Adams Oshiomhole, says he regrets his mistake of supporting Mr Godwin Obaseki for governorship in 2016. July 27, 2020 In "Politics" Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his associates in Edo All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains must have been unhappy about the drama in the ruling party at the federal level that terminated his leadership. July 5, 2020 In "News"