The African Development Bank (AfDB) said Thursday it would provide $285 million in aid to Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, Niger and Chad to help them fight the coronavirus pandemic. The aid was being provided within the framework of a $10-billion COVID-19 response facility unveiled by the AfDB in April. Niger would receive support of $108.8 million, Burkina Faso $54.6 million and Mali $48.9 million in both loans and grants, a statement said. Chad would receive $61.2 million and Mauritania $10.2 million in the form of grants. “The board of directors of the AfDB has approved budgetary support of $284.8 million to help the efforts of the Sahel countries — Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Chad — in implementing their response plans to the COVID-19 pandemic and economic recovery,” the pan-African bank said. The aid “is particularly important for the G5 Sahel countries which are already suffering from climate, humanitarian and security shocks,” said the bank’s director general for West Africa, Marie-Laure Akin Olugbade. With the exception of Mauritania, the Sahel countries have all been the target of deadly attacks by jihadist groups in recent years. In addition, Mali is facing a deep political crisis. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. G5 Sahel Heads of State have expressed their support for “Desert to Power’’, an Africa Development Bank (AfDB) initiative designed to harness solar energy for socio-economic development of member countries. They gave the support at the G5 Sahel Heads of State Summit in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. NAN reports that in 2014,… September 15, 2019 In "Foreign" The African Development Bank (AfDB) has appealed to International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank to work out a financial support system for Nigeria and other west African countries which economies were threatened by insecurity. January 30, 2020 In "News" Western donors said Thursday they have pledged 2.4 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in funding aimed at preventing terrorism and lawlessness along the southern rim of the Sahara. December 7, 2018 In "News"