The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has called for prayers for the speedy recovery of Ebonyi State governor, Dave Umahi, the wife of Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom, Eunice, as well as other Nigerians who have tested positive to COVID-19. The PDP described the increase in the spread of the pandemic across the country as disturbing. The party in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, however, restated its charge to Nigerians not to succumb to fear but at the same time redouble their vigilance and adherence to preventive measures of personal hygiene, social and physical distancing and early reporting of symptoms. “The PDP urges Nigerians not to let down their guard but remain conscious of the reality of COVID-19, especially with the easing of social restrictions in the country. “The party urges the federal government to intensify efforts in awareness campaign as well as providing economic stimulus to minimize social exposure and vulnerability of Nigerians in various sectors of endeavours. “The PDP restates its call for the concerted commitment of all citizens in reciprocating the sacrifices of our health workers and others on the front lines to defeat the pandemic in our country,” the statement read in part. Vanguard The People’s Democratic Party has called for prayers for the speedy recovery of Gov. Dave Umahi of Ebonyi, the wife of Benue governor, Eunice Ortom, and other Nigerians, who have tested positive to COVID-19. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement on Saturday in Abuja, described… July 5, 2020 In "Politics" By Rasheed Sobowale Most people last year were looking forward to the 2020 New Year, catapulting some resolution they were unable to achieve with a determination and promise of commitment to see them through. Unknowingly for all, 2020 has a different plan for the world. The year 2019 left a… July 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" A Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, stalwart and former National Assembly member from Benue State, Mrs Rebecca Apedzan has tested positive for coronavirus, COVID-19 in Makurdi. May 12, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"