BENIN CITY—The Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, has said the Benin throne is non-partisan, and warned politicians against turning the state into a war zone as they prepare for the September 19 Edo governorship election. Reacting to the clash among rival politicians in front of the palace on Saturday, the monarch, through a statement by Secretary of Benin Traditional Council, BTC, Frank Irabor, condemned what he described as unruly behaviour of politicians’ supporters, reiterating that the palace remained non-partisan. The BTC statement said the Oba remained committed to peace and tranquillity in the state, and peaceful governorship elections in the state. The statement said: “The BTC (Benin Traditional Council) wishes to state that His Royal Majesty warmly welcomed the august visitors led by Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo. “The meeting was cordial. During the meeting, the Oba of Benin recalled the warm reception accorded him by Governor Nyesom Wike and Governor Aminu Tambuwal when he paid a ‘thank-you’ visit to both states. The courtesy of the esteemed august visitors to the monarch ended very well. “We were, therefore, surprised to hear later that there was an incident outside the palace, directly in front of Oredo Local Government Secretariat. His Royal Majesty condemns this unruly behaviour that occurred in front of the Palace. “We wish to emphasise, once more, that the Benin throne is not partisan. “The BTC uses this medium to advise all political party members not to turn Edo State into a war zone because of gubernatorial ambition. “His Royal Majesty is committed to peace and tranquillity in the state and peaceful gubernatorial election.” Several persons were, last Saturday, injured as supporters of All Progressives Congress, APC, and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, clashed near the Oba’s palace, when PDP governors, led by the Chairman of the party’s campaign council, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, who were in the state to flag off the campaign of its candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki, visited the Oba of Benin. VANGUARD By Rasheed Sobowale The traditional ruler of Edo and Edoid people, Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II has expressed his discontent with godfatherism and presentation of a consensus candidate by a faction of party chieftains to govern the people of Edo State. Describing the present state of political power play… June 19, 2020 In "News" The Oba of Benin however believes that for all intents and purposes, the aims and motives behind the formation of TROMPCON is no doubt good but advises on the need for TROMPCON to be administered fairly and equitably in order to fully accommodate all interest groups September 10, 2017 In "News" IT was a gathering of ‘who is who’ in Benin Kingdom, Edo State and Nigeria as the Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo Oba Ewuare II, marked his birthday and the third anniversary on the throne. October 27, 2019 In "News"