Factional Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Imo Daniel Nwafor, has urged Gov. Hope Uzodinma to wade into the lingering crisis currently rocking the party in the state. Nwafor made the appeal in an interview with newsmen in Owerri while speaking on the Thursday’s judgment of an Abuja High Court, which struck out an application by Marcon Nlemigbo-led faction of the party in the state. He said that the wrangling in the party had continued unabated because of the governor’s failure to intervene in order to find a lasting solution to the impasse. He advised the governor to toe the path of constitutionality and peace to reconcile members in the overall interest of the party and its members. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that Nlemigbo’s faction loyal to Uzodinma had approached the court for an “Order of Unconditional Stay of Execution/Enforcement” of a judgment delivered by the same court on Aug. 14, 2018. Nwafor said: “As the leader of the party in the state, Uzodinma should tow the path of constitutionality and peace. “He should keep sentiments aside and do the right thing by reconciling all the rival leaders and allow the right people to pilot the affairs of the party in the state as recognised by law.” NAN recalls that during a recent news conference in Owerri, Nlemigbo had accused the Nwafor’s faction of being impostors and advised the group to repent and officially return to the party. He also accused the faction of having engaged in anti-party activities during the last general elections. According to him, the faction joined former Gov. Rochas Okorocha’s choice candidate Uche Nwosu, after his defection to Action Alliance to contest the governorship poll.
Vanguard News A faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo State has expelled the party’s governorship candidate, Senator Hope Uzodinma. January 24, 2019 In "News" Sen. Hope Uzodinma, representing Imo West Senatorial District, has called for adoption of direct primaries in Imo to end crisis and ensure victory for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2019 general elections. September 21, 2018 In "News" The All Progressives Congress APC has described as a nullity, the purported expulsion of its governorship candidate in Imo state, Sen. Hope Uzodinma by a faction of the party loyal to Gov. Rochas Okorocha. January 24, 2019 In "Politics"