The Member Representing Warri Federal Constituency at House of Representatives, Hon. Thomas Ereyitomi has congratulated Muslim faithful in Warri Federal Constituency as well as those in Delta state and Nigeria as they join their brothers and sisters to mark the Eid-El-Kabir celebration across the globe which is also referred as Festival of Sacrifice. Ereyitomi enjoined the Muslim faithful to continually pray more for peaceful coexistence among their neighborhood and tolerate people for Nigeria to move forward progressively all all-round development. The lawmaker encouraged Muslims to reflect the kind heart by showing a good example of sacrifice, giving to the needy, and sharing of food with friends and family. He advised them to be mindful of the COVID 19 situation and avoid mass gathering, observe social/physical distancing as well as washing of hands and use of face mask, noting that Coronavirus is real therefore no opportunity should be exposed to contract it. Spokesman to Hon. Ereyitomi, Amb. Toyin Agbolyaya harped on the festival of sacrifice by Muslims in Warri Federal Constituency on behalf of Warri Federal Constituency  Hon. Ereyitomi prayed and enjoined Muslims in the Warri Federal Constituency to enjoy Allah’s peace and prosperity. Vanguard The member representing Warri Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, Hon. Thomas Ereyitomi has congratulated all Muslim faithful in Warri Federal Constituency and across Delta state as they join their brothers and sisters to celebrate this year 2020 Eid-al-Fitr marking the end of Ramadan fast which is the most… May 24, 2020 In "News" The Member representing Warri Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives, Hon. Chief Thomas Ereyitomi has congratulated a legal luminary, Barr. Robinson Ariyo on the occasion of his birthday. May 19, 2020 In "News" The Member Representing Warri Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives, Hon. Thomas Ereyitomi has prayed for the quick recovery for the Delta Governor Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa and his wife, Edith, and daughter who have tested positive for coronavirus (COVID-19). July 2, 2020 In "News"