Bayern Munich chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge believes the decision for there to be no 2020 Ballon d’Or winner is “not very fair”, as he feels Robert Lewandowski could have claimed the award. France Football announced last week it would not select the world’s best player this year due to a “lack of sufficient fair conditions” amid the coronavirus pandemic. The global crisis caused the sport to come to a standstill in March, although the Premier League, LaLiga, Serie A and Bundesliga were among the competitions to restart. France’s Ligue 1 was one of the leagues that were not completed, however, playing into the decision not to go ahead with the award. Lewandowski has scored 51 goals in all competitions in the best season of his career, helping Bayern to win the Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal, while a treble bid remains very much alive in the Champions League. Rummenigge thinks he would have been a worthy Ballon d’Or winner. “I believe Robert Lewandowski is playing a fantastic season and he performed maybe the best season in his career,” Rummenigge told a news conference on Monday. “Unfortunately, France Football cancelled the Ballon d’Or, which we are not very happy [about]. In the end, it’s not very fair – not just for Bayern but also for Robert Lewandowski, who might have won. “I believe it’s very important that in a season that, except the French league, [were] performed through to the end of the season, it has to be possible to give the Ballon d’Or to the best footballer in the world. “Of course, I believe, in those circumstances, Robert would have a good chance to win it for the first time in his career.” Lewandowski has never been in the top three at the annual awards, but was fourth in 2015 after an excellent first season at Bayern. Barcelona great Lionel Messi won the 2019 Ballon d’Or for a record sixth time. Fotmob Vanguard This year’s Ballon d’Or has been scrapped after coronavirus impacted the season. The shock announcement has come from media organisation France Football, who present awards to the best footballers in the men’s and women’s game. The announcement will come as a bitter blow to Bayern Munich striker Robert Lewandowski, who… July 21, 2020 In "Sports" COVID-19 has impacted the sporting calendar yet further with France Football announcing that there will not be a Ballon d’Or winner for 2020, leaving a number of players as victims of the decision. With the award being dominated by Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo for so many years, it feels somewhat unfair that the… July 22, 2020 In "Sports" Bayern Munich coach, Hansi Flick, says he is determined to keep defender David Alaba and midfielder Thiago Alcantara, who has been linked to a move to Liverpool. "I will do everything I can to ensure that we can keep two such quality players," said Flick after the Bundesliga champions completed… July 5, 2020 In "Sports"