The Managing Director/ Chief Executive of Transcorp Hotels Plc, Dupe Olusola, has said the key priority of its properties, Transcorp Hilton Abuja and Transcorp Hotels Calabar, is safety amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. She said this at the “Africa Tomorrow Hospitality” conference during her spotlight discussion led by Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard, Founder and Chairman on APO Group, a pan African communications consultancy. The focus discussion was to deep dive into the leading hospitality brand’s strategy to keep both its hotels open at the onset of the pandemic, the ancillary revenue streams it tapped into and their post COVID-19 plans for recovery. Commenting on the impact of the pandemic, Dupe Olusola said,  “The COVID-19 crisis is challenging for all industries. However, the hospitality industry has been one of the hardest hit due to the lockdowns implemented globally. The African Union estimated that Africa’s tourism industry lost about $55billion in Travel and Tourism revenue. Bringing this home, we witnessed a drop in numbers in our occupancy and revenue metrics when the virus hit. Regardless, we set our priorities at the onset of the lockdown which was to stay open to cater to our extended stay guests, make their safety and that of our employees our topmost priority and also keep operations running at a minimal level”.  “Not closing down the hotel during the lockdown was one of the best decisions we made. It gave our hotels clarity on the hygiene standards we wanted to maintain, constantly training the staff on operating cleaning protocols and set guidelines from health experts to get to where we are now. Our learning curve has been quick as we are better prepared more than ever to welcome all our loyal guests back.” Vanguard Shareholders of Transcorp Hotels Plc, owners of the iconic Transcorp Hilton Abuja and Transcorp Hotels Calabar, have unanimously authorised the Board of Directors to raise N10 billion in its proposed rights issue to fortify its balance sheet. June 29, 2020 In "News" …as President, Ozigbo receives Seven Stars Hospitality Personality Award …Elumelu becomes 1st Seven Stars Man of the Year By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja One of the nation’s prestigious hotels, Transcorp Hilton Abuja, has bagged the Signum Virtutis (Seal of Excellence) in the Hotels Sector for Nigeria at the 2019 Seven… October 9, 2019 In "News" Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc (Transcorp) has unveiled its new strategic vision with a view to improving on its performance as well as shareholders’ value. May 5, 2020 In "News"