Caleb University, Imota, Lagos, which emerged one of the selected institutions to commence e-learning without interrupting its academic calendar, has successfully conducted academic, training and other regular activities on the University’s online platform, with students enrolment on the e-learning platform moving from 8% (293 students) on April 20 to almost 100% (3,731 students) by the beginning of July 2020. To achieve excellent service delivery, academic staff have undergone five different training sessions in order to gain a mastery of teaching and assessment tools available on the e-learning platform. Apart from periodic guidelines circulated to them, a general training session and college and departmental-level training have been organized for students. The institution early in the semester granted all students at undergraduate and postgraduate levels and lecturers, free access to various e-library resources, to enhance research, learning and teaching experience and capacity. Numerous other social, political and spiritual activities, are also going on virtually. The Student Representatives Council (SRC) elections are ongoing, with students currently campaigning to solicit votes for various positions. Activities will culminate in manifesto presentation and the inauguration of the new executive, virtually. The University’s commitment to fostering academic excellence and godly character has continued, with an optional online prayer meeting once a month. Although the University had anticipated physical resumption during the semester, delays in resumption have led to the institution advising students who paid accommodation fees, of the option of carrying such component of the fees forward or getting a refund. All students were however allowed to register for courses on the portal during the semester, irrespective of fee status, while those whose capacity to pay fees due to COVID-19 challenges was hindered, were given access to the university’s e-learning platform. In furtherance of its  Corporate Social Responsibility, the University, has following the Phase 1 of the exercise which took place in April when various foodstuff was distributed to 3,000 residents of Imota, the Phase 2 exercise has commenced with the distribution of other COVID-19 relief materials, including branded Sanitizer and Facemask produced by the University – to residents of Ikorodu, Imota, Agbowa, Adamo and Isiu, which are all immediate communities of the institution. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Nosa Owens-Ibie, encouraged by the progress since the lockdown and eager to sustain other initiatives even during the lockdown, is optimistic that “when normalcy returns and the lockdown is lifted,  the current Initiatives of Caleb University will serve as a catalyst for plans which will further position the university as a destination of choice for discerning parents and students.” Vanguard Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) Wednesday said it has integrated its syllabus with Caleb University National Universities Commission (NUC) undergraduate accounting programme, as they signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). February 7, 2018 In "Education" HIGHER education institutions are confronting new challenges brought about by the present health contingency of COVID-19, ranging from the need for online educational resources to the creation of a complete curricular structure made possible by educational technology. In recent months alone, we have seen an enormous advance in the infrastructure… April 30, 2020 In "Education" CALEB University, Imota, Lagos, has said it will remain one of the higher institutions of learning that will not compromise the moral and spritual components of its students. January 25, 2018 In "Education"