CHIEF of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai on Monday said that over 90 per cent of kidnappers, bandits and armed robbers are Nigerians. The Chief of Army Staff also said that if Nigerians want the banditry to end in the shortest time, it would end even as he said that terrorism and kidnapping had been an age-long security challenge in the country. Briefing State House correspondents after meeting behind closed doors with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, Gen. Buratai said there is the need for the citizens to be involved in sharing information with security personnel. He also pleaded with the media not to be giving undue publicity to the criminal elements in the country, saying that the publicity the bandits and terrorists get embolden them to perpetuate their dastardly act. Recall that last month President Buhari in a meeting with Service Chiefs and other security heads had warned that he would no longer tolerate escalation of insecurity in the house. He had told the security heads that their “best is not good enough,” and warned against further deterioration of the security situation in the country. The President had frowned at lack of synergy among the security heads and told them to work together in order to bring to a halt myriads of security challenges bedevilling the country. Last Saturday, it was reported that armed bandits allegedly killed 16 soldiers and injured 30 in an ambush around Shimfida in Jibia local government area of Katsina. Besides, kidnappers had struck in Kaduna a few days ago and allegedly abducted over six persons including a policewoman. Details later… Vanguard News The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai has expressed great concern over the 'increased propaganda and undue publicity' being given to the remnants of the erstwhile Boko Haram terrorist group by some people saying it is emboldening the 'criminals'. September 13, 2019 In "News" By Levinus Nwabughiogu The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General, Tukur Buratai has advocated for a separate budgetary system for the Nigerian army where it would not be included in the current envelope system. To this end, he appealed to the National Assembly to prevail on the Ministry of Finance,… October 24, 2019 In "News" .Says Nigeria’s unity non-negotiable The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai, has strongly warned those individuals who are unnecessarily politicizing security-related issues in the country for undue political gains to henceforth refrain from doing so. General Buratai gave the warning when he paid an operational visit to… July 16, 2019 In "News"