The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu has told the suspended acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu that the police have no hand in his detention. Magu is currently being interrogated by a presidential investigation committee headed by Justice Ayo Salami following corruption allegation against him from the Attorney General of the Federation, AGF, and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. Magu has been detained for about 10 days at the Force Criminal Investigation Department, FCID. Following the detention, the former anti-graft boss’ lawyer Tosin Ojoamo, had written to the IGP requesting for his bail. But in a response to the request, the police boss denied a hand in Magu’s detention, attributing it to the presidential panel. In a letter addressed to the lawyer with reference number: CB:7000/IGP.SEC/ABJ/VOL.489/171, dated 14th July 2020 and cited by Vanguard on Wednesday, IGP Adamu explained that Magu was not being detained by the police but by the panel investigating the activities of the EFCC. The IGP response read in part: “Your letter 00C/TOL/89A/07/2020 of 10th July 2020 on the above-underlined subject refers. “The Inspector-General of Police directs that your attention be drawn to the fact that the Nigeria Police Force is not investigating C.P. Ibrahim Magu (your client) and he is not accordingly, not being detained by the police but by the presidential panel that is investigating the activities of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). “The Inspector-General of Police, therefore, advises that you consider re-directing your request to the Chairman of the presidential panel for appropriate attention. “I am to convey the assurances of the warmest regards of the Inspector of Police, please.” The IGP letter was signed by DCP Owohunwa, Principal Staff Officer for the Inspector General of Police. Meanwhile, Magu arrived at the Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, with his lawyer about 9 am on Wednesday for the ongoing investigation. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:  Vanguard By Kingsley Omonobi & Ikechukwu Nnochiri The lawyer to Ibrahim Magu, the suspended Acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Mr. Oluwatosin Ojaomo, on Friday, applied for an administrative bail at the force headquarters for Magu, who is facing corruption charges before a presidential panel. Mr. Ojaomo told… July 10, 2020 In "News" The plea by the suspended acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission,EFCC, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, for bail, was, yesterday, greeted with mixed reactions from lawyers, who said the Presidential Investigation Panel lacks the power to detain him. July 12, 2020 In "Politics" •Lawyers divided over continued detention •Investigators storm Borno community, comb property – Source •Grumbling in EFCC over successor •‘How desperation for confirmation led him astray’ By Emma Nnadozie, Johnbosco Agbakwuru, DIrisu Yakubu, Yinka Ajayi & Nnamdi Ojiego   The plea by the suspended acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes… July 12, 2020 In "News"