Government of Rivers State on Wednesday approved N18 billion for construction of a fourth Flyover Bridge under Governor Nyesom Wike to be sited at GRA Junction, Aba Expressway, Port Harcourt The amount covers the dualisation of Tombia Extension Road to Ikwerre Road and Ezimgbu Link Road to Stadium Road in the state capital among several road infrastructures being executed in Port Harcourt by Julius Berger Nigeria PLC. State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Paulinus Nsirim, highlighted key aspects of the project following decisions reached at the State Executive Council Meeting presided over by Governor Nyesom Wike. Nsirim revealed that, “The roads for expansion is 680 meters while that of the Flyover is 502 meters. The government took the decision to further strengthen its infrastructural development drive. “20 indigenous engineers would be trained by Julius Berger Nigeria PLC during the contract period as part of government’s policy on youth empowerment and skills acquisition. “The Executive Council has also approved building of a new Legislative Quarters for members of the State House of Assembly because the former Quarters was dilapidated. “This is in line with  Governor Wike’s avowed commitment to ensure that all three arms of government work in synergy for the overall development of the state.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike on Saturday inspected the location for the fourth Flyover Bridge under consideration for better traffic flow in the state capital. February 29, 2020 In "News" The Rivers State Government is to commence the construction of a Fourth Flyover at GRA Junction. In addition, the Rumuola Flyover is to be expanded to accommodate additional vehicular traffic. June 11, 2020 In "News" Rivers State Government and Julius Berger Nigeria Plc on Friday signed an agreement for the construction of three flyover bridges to develop the landscape of Port Harcourt and resolve traffic congestion in the city. The Attorney-General of Rivers State,  Dr. Zaccheus Adango led officials of the Rivers State Government during… October 18, 2019 In "News"