‘Jaga jaga’ crooner, Eedris Abdulkareem is surely not happy with political happenings in the country in recent times, but the former Kennis music signee is rather being humorous over the happenings. In a recent post on his official Instagram page, the Kano state born artist made a mockery of the acting managing director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Professor Daniel Pondei, who collapsed after being grilled for 45 minutes by the members of the National Assembly, recently.    A post shared by  Eedris Abdulkareem (@abdulkareemeedris) on Jul 22, 2020 at 4:40pm PDT  “How to faint during probing: 1. gently remove your eye glass and put on the table; 2. Bend down and do your eye wan kain wan kain (make funny eye gestures); 3. Be quick to remove any hand that attempts to injure you in the name of resuscitation” Eedris jokes. In 2004, Abdulkareem released a song, Jaga Jaga, a Yoruba term for shambles, condemning corruption and suffering in Nigeria. The title track was banned from radio by President Olusegun Obasanjo then but continued to be played in nightclubs. VANGUARD Eedris Abdulkareem, former member of defunct music group, Eddyremedies, has verbally attacked widely acclaimed afro-pop legend, 2face Idibia, for disrespecting self styled king of the jungle, Daddy Showkey, and for pulling out of the peaceful protest against the federal government, championed by Enough is Enough group, early last month. March 31, 2017 In "Entertainment" If you are driving into Nigeria from the Murtala Muhammed International airport, Nigeria would shock you. The unkempt airport and its pathway give an apt description of what is happening inside Nigeria. As if that was not bad enough, a contractor by way of road expansion or whatever broke the… November 5, 2017 In "Heart of the matter with Chioma" If you are driving into Nigeria from the Murtala Muhammed International airport, Nigeria would shock you. The unkempt airport and its pathway give an apt description of what is happening inside Nigeria. As if that was not bad enough, a contractor by way of road expansion or whatever broke the… October 29, 2017 In "Heart of the matter with Chioma"