The embattled Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, on Tuesday appeared again before the Justice Ayo Salami-led panel probing allegations of corruption against him. Mr. Magu was quizzed on Monday and taken to the State House Conference Hall (Old Banquet Hall), where the panel grilled him on over 21 corruption allegations. Vanguard reliably gathered that the panel has been sitting in the last three weeks before Magu’s appearance. The anti-graft boss is facing allegations of corruption leveled against him by the Attorney General of the Federation, AGF, and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. He was dragged before the panel after being apprehended on the street in Wuse II Abuja by security officials. Members of the panel were noticed at the venue of the interrogation by noon on Tuesday while a convoy of three cars, which appeared to be carrying an important guest drove into the premises at 12.37 pm. Magu was said to have passed the night at the Force Criminal Investigation Bureau, FCIB, after being interrogated on Monday by the probe panel. Vanguard Acting Chairman of the Economic & Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, and the Department of State Services, DSS, were principal actors in a drama of confusion, arrest, denial and interrogation, yesterday, in Abuja, the nation’s capital. July 7, 2020 In "News" Filed by David Royal Acting Chairman of the Economic & Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, and the Department of State Services, DSS, were principal actors in a drama of confusion, arrest, denial and interrogation, yesterday, in Abuja, the nation’s capital. Initial reports indicated that Magu had been arrested by… July 7, 2020 In "News" The Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, PACAC, on Monday, described the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, as an arrow-head of a power bloc, just as a presidential panel grilled the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Acting Chairman, Ibrahim Magu, for hours. July 7, 2020 In "News"