Football teams could be allowed to continue using up to five substitutes during the 2020/21 season after the sport’s lawmakers extended a temporary solution to a congested schedule in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The International Football Association Board (IFAB) said the measures were taken due to the short turnaround between the end of the 2019/20 season and start of the new campaign and the fact matches will be played in a condensed period due to a delayed start to the season. Each individual league and international competition will have the option to decide whether to apply the new rule or stick by the pre-pandemic regulations of a maximum of three substitutes per side for a 90-minute match. To avoid disruption to the game, each team will only have three opportunities to make substitutions, although changes made at half-time are not counted as one of those stoppages. Despite the concerns over player welfare that has led to the rule changes, the use of five substitutes per side has been controversial. The biggest clubs with deeper squads benefit most, leading to concerns of further widening the gap between the richest clubs and the rest. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Football teams will be allowed to use five substitutes when play resumes after the coronavirus pandemic, the sport's law-making body announced on Friday. The International Football Association Board (IFAB) said in as statement that it had agreed to a proposal by world governing body FIFA for a temporary change to… May 8, 2020 In "Sports" FIFA has proposed that teams should be allowed to make up to five substitutions per match, instead of the usual three, as a temporary measure to help cope with potential fixture congestion in the aftermath of the novel Coronavirus outbreak. Football has been at a standstill since mid-March but many… April 30, 2020 In "Sports" The five substitutes rule could be here to stay for next season as football’s law makers IFAB consider keeping it in play. Managers have been allowed to make five changes rather than three since football resumed. It was set to be a short-term rule change with the motivation being player… July 10, 2020 In "Sports"