Delectable Yoruba actress and model, Bukola Olatunji is one of the young Yoruba actresses making waves in the movie industry, with their talents and looks. She’s a public Administration graduate of the Polytechnic of Ibadan. Her acting journey started with a drama group known as Igbalajobi and has featured in so many films, having produced six of her own, namely; Ini Oluwa, Ife Inu Mi, Ayanmo, Kosi Ife, Akutu and Esan Laye. In a recent encounter with Showtime Bonus the 6-footer let us into her heart. On being sexy Being sexy to me comes with an attitude of confidence and being comfortable with one’s body and self… And I will say women should flaunt their endowments, because you have to appreciate yourself if no one appreciates you. Influence of social media As an actress, Social media has and will continue to be of great benefit. It doesn’t only help with personal name and brand recognition, but it can connect you with peers and industry professionals you should know (and who should know you!). Plus, when it comes to larger film projects, casting directors and marketing departments are definitely paying attention to actor’s social media followings to gauge their online reach—for better or worse. Embarrassing day It was actually funny and embarrassing -There was this day I went to the supermarket with my sister and she forgot my ATM card in the car so I shouted at her, and a lady walked up to tell me and said, “Hey this is exactly how you do shout in movies”. I felt so embarrassed. On feminism Feminism to me is about all genders having equal rights and opportunities. It’s about respecting diverse women’s experiences, identities, knowledge and strengths, and striving to empower all women to realize their full potential. Major turn offs and allergies I can stand few things but bad body and mouth odour is a total turnoff for me in the opposite sex and I don’t act nude scenes. Selling points I will say my beauty and my height are my selling points. A lot of people tell me to my face they love my height. Goals My ultimate goals as an actor are to be famous, to impact knowledge and to be well respected. VANGUARD Lithe and gracefully built Yoruba actress, Bukola Olatunji doesn’t like making her private affairs public for reasons best known to her. But the issue of sex dolls being the new other woman to most women in romantic relationships is one that has forced her to make her intimate opinion concerning… February 25, 2018 In "Entertainment" Beautiful and petite Yoruba actress, Feyisara Hassan only just turned 24 on Wednesday, April 26, 2017 and already has produced five films of her own while featuring in so many more. In this interview as our star of the week, Feyisara talks about her journey as a teenage movie producer,… April 29, 2017 In "Entertainment" Up and coming Yoruba actress, Abidoun Olatunji, popularly known in the industry as Obelu Eru Aya (meaning a very busty woman) has given women her own prescription to dealing with cheating lovers or husbands. December 8, 2018 In "Entertainment"