Former Secretary General of the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, NUPENG, Chief Frank Kokori, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to purge his administration of persons with corrupt traits stating that victimization and corruption is wallowing under his watch. Chief Kokori who is also a board of trustee member of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC from Delta State, also asked the people of the Niger Delta region to hold President Buhari responsible for the recent corruption allegations bedeviling the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. The elder statesman in a chat with Vanguard, questioned the actions of the presidency in respect to the forensic audit in the NDDC saying, “What has the presidency done as regards the forensic audit that they keep talking about? There is no firm (audit firm) of international repute doing any job there. “The authorities do not bother about the NDDC, they do not probe people. The presidency should be held liable for all the useless corruption that is going on in the NDDC. But I believe the whole problem is in the hand of the president and the government. The fault is in the hand of the government as it does not probe that place. “Every single person in the Niger Delta knows that the NDDC has not fulfilled anything, it is just meant for those privileged to be appointed there so when they get there, they steal all the monies and become billions as they bribe their way into office and have to make returns. “They say, oh, Buhari is a good man, yet you will not intervene despite the fact that everybody around you is corrupt? So what kind of good man or good president is that? Yet victimization and corruption is wallowing under your watch?” Vanguard News Nigeria. Group known as Transparency and Accountability Advancement Group, Thursday asked President Muhammadu Buhari, to as a matter of urgency disband the activities of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). June 4, 2020 In "News" ...passes Vote Of Confidence on him The National President of Urhobo Progressive Union (UPU), Youthwing, Worldwide, Comrade Efemena Umukoro, has said that Urhobo youths are totally in support of the President-General (PG) of UPU, Chief Joe Omene, over his position on the Senate’s planned probe of the Interim Management Committee… May 21, 2020 In "News" NIGER Delta activist and President of parallel Ijaw Youth Council, IYC, Mr. Eric Omare, says the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, was an interested party in the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, and, therefore, stakeholders in the region do not want his participation in any team to … November 10, 2019 In "Politics"