Retired members of the Nigerian Armed Forces are threatening to stage a  protest in Abuja and state capitals across the country to draw  attention to their grievances. The military retirees, under the auspices of Military Veteran Affairs,  in a statement, accused the  authorities of being insensitive on their issues, saying they had no alternative than  to embark on the  protest. The veterans listed their grievances to include the failure of the military to pay up three main outstanding entitlements, including the balance of 2017/2018 arrears. They also demanded minimum wage consequential adjustment as well as its arrears dating from April ,2019,requesting   relevant authorities to furnish them with information on the modality for the payment of Security Debarment Allowance. The retired officers further called on the military authorities for health insurance scheme to cover treatment of   service-related injuries and disabilities. Speaking on their efforts to draw attention to their grievances, the veterans spokesperson, Abiodun Durowaiye Herberts, said their group met Maj. Gen. LF Abdullahi, Director of Veterans Affairs, on July 21. “We were told by the DVAD of three separate committees that had  been set up to look into various areas of veterans welfare even before our letter to the HMOD got to him, stressing that  our planned action come 1st week of August may stall efforts to get positive results arising from the welfare plans by the current administration”, he said. “So, I, on behalf of our team asked the General: “How could they set up 3 committees to better our welfare, yet we are not aware of it and we are also not represented in those 3 committees?” Nevertheless, he said mobilisation for the protest, scheduled for August, continued. Vanguard By Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja Following the meeting held between executive members of the retired military veterans comprised of ex-soldiers and officers and the Minister of Defence Maj Gen, Bashir Salihi Magashi (rtd) in Abuja on Thursday, the retired military veterans have called off their planned strike scheduled for August… August 8, 2020 In "News" RETIRED  civil servants in the employment of the Osun State government, yesterday, trooped in the major streets of Osogbo, in Osun State to protest the non- payment of their gratuities, arrears and other outstanding debts owed them by the state government. July 25, 2018 In "News" FEDERAL Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development’s pensioners have threatened mass action over their unpaid pensions and other entitlements for the past six years. This is as the National Pension Commission, PenCom, is fuming over ongoing moves to exclude paramilitary organisations including the police from the Contributory Pension Scheme, CPS. August 23, 2017 In "Business"