The Collections Merchant Brand, a retail and wholesale clothing brand, has restated its desire to ensure that more Nigerians get affordable and classy clothes. According to its CEO, Akpu Tessy Oluchi, TCM Brand was inspired to create a product that serves as a leading beacon in affordable yet quality fashion items. Speaking further, Tessy noted that the brand was borne out of the desire to provide affordable and quality products for individuals and businesses, especially in the fashion retail and wholesale space. Founded in January 2019 in the corner of her home, Tessy says that she started with just a smartphone and desire to succeed. After several trials, she says, her husband invested the sum of Five hundred thousand Naira (N500,000) into the business, which She was able to religiously convert a humble Five hundred thousand naira investment into a thriving multi-million naira enterprise. “In less than a year, the business boasts of over three thousand retail customers and over two hundred and fifty wholesale clients. Despite the daunting task of sourcing for genuine suppliers, manufacturers and shipping complications faced, we have been able to create working partnerships with shipping companies whilst enhancing free-flowing business operations,” she said. She further noted that the brand has grown in leaps and bounds, and this has led to the birth of two subsidiaries, The TCM Hair brand as well as TCM Bridals. Since making its debut on the entrepreneurial stage in early 2019, Tessy has been nominated for several awards. She recently emerged the Entrepreneur of the Year at the Nigerian Women Achievers Award. Her love for the kids has seen her play a major sponsorship role in the Nigeria Peace Initiative, “Take a Child off the Street” campaign to help vulnerable kids at several internally displaced persons (IDP) camps in the Northern part of Nigeria. Her store is currently  located at Ogunlana Drive, Surulere Lagos while work is  in progress to open more outlets nationwide and overseas with the brand gaining global recognition. Vanguard WITH the increasing number of male celebrities who have their brands in Nigeria, it would seem that the female celebs also have no plans of being left out as they too make their mark through their own brands. A lot of people mistake a celeb being a Brand Ambassador as… July 6, 2017 In "Woman" The increasing influx of Chinese products into the Nigerian market is giving sleepless nights to many concerned Nigerians.Given that agencies like the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), the Standards Organisation of Nigeria ( SON) and the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC ), mann the borders to… July 21, 2010 In "Metro" Award-winning fashion designer Tessy Oliseh-Amaize has unveiled a new menswear collection tagged 'Billboard'. September 8, 2016 In "News"