The FCT Police Command has arrested three suspects linked to the gruesome murder of late Mr Sunday Chukwujekwu Ike, owner of Suncell Pharmacy Gwarinpa and Publicity Secretary of Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN), who was killed at his shop on 19th June 2020. Spokesman, FCT Police Command, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, who confirmed the arrest, noted that “The major milestone in the investigation also led to the recovery of the deceased’s Huawei phone and his Sky blue Toyota Camry car, which were robbed by his assailants. He said, “The three suspects in police custody were arrested on 12th July 2020 at Lafia in Nasarawa State and Jos, Plateau State, after a painstaking investigation by operatives of the Command Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). “While one Danbala Buba 42 years old and Isah Rilwanu 24 years old both male were arrested at Lafia, Nasarawa State, in possession of the deceased’s Sky blue Toyota Camry car. Abdulhamid Nasir 35 years old was arrested in possession of the deceased’s Huawei phone at his hideout in Jos, Plateau State. “Efforts are being intensified to arrest the leader of the gang who is at large.” Vanguard News Nigeria. The FCT Police Command on Monday in Abuja said it had arrested three suspected members of a notorious kidnapping and car snatching syndicate. The suspects are: Alhaji Isah Aliu, Labaran Abubakar and Abdullahi Ishaq. Presenting the suspects to newsmen, the FCT Commissioner of Police, Mr Muhammad Mustafa, said that among… August 22, 2016 In "News" Operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Intelligence Response Team have smashed an inter-state robbery gang, which specialised in snatching vehicles and selling same at give-away prices to ready buyers across the country. July 6, 2017 In "News" By  Sola Ogundipe, Evelyn Usman and Chioma Obinna Rampaging gunmen stormed a store on 3rd Avenue, Gwarimpa, Abuja, last Friday and killed its owner, Sunday Ike, a pharmacist, following which his colleagues threatened to withdraw their services. After the act, the gunmen zoomed off in the victim’s Toyota Camry car… June 21, 2020 In "Health"