A 400 LEVEL medical student at the Lagos State University College of Medicine, LASUCOM, Toluwalashe Soyemi, has been honoured with the Diana Award for his efforts in fighting stigmatisation of persons with mental health conditions. The Diana Award, established in memory of Diana, the late Princess of Wales, is a prestigious award a young person is given for social action or humanitarian efforts. He was selected alongside 184 recipients from 35 countries, of which he was one of the nine Nigerians selected. Soyemi at age of 18, co-founded Protostar Initiative, a youth-led social venture committed to providing mental health education in communities whilst advocating the destigmatisation of persons with mental health conditions. As the Team Lead, he works with local communities to train young people in mental health first aid and raise awareness in schools and other youth organisations. These training sessions dispel common myths and help people to recognise symptoms and access support mechanisms for mental health conditions. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic that has restricted movement, Soyemi and his team have been working on a project that aims to provide online mental health services (counseling, therapy etc) to 1000 people within six months for free. He is campaigning for a world in which everyone is educated on mental health and where every person with a mental health condition can access the support they need. This is not the first time that Soyemi would be putting LASU on the global map, as he was recently selected on a fully-funded scholarship to represent Nigeria in Shenzhen, China for the UNLEASH Innovation Lab as a United Nation SDG Talent to pitch his project on mental health and has gotten multiple international opportunities in support of his project on mental health. Patients suffering from depression,epilepsy and psychosis will soon have access to treatment at the primary healthcare, PHC, level in Lagos, if a new project initiated by Mental Health in Primary Care (MeHPriC),through grants from Grand Challenges Canada (GCC) is anything to go by. September 3, 2013 In "Health" In every sane and forward looking society, the progenitors and harbingers of different traditions and social innovations are celebrated. Such honour is meant to motivate more productive thoughts, which are capable of stimulating inventive ideas that will impact positively on the socioeconomic and academic domains of any society. October 22, 2018 In "The Arts" Towards helping to address the worrisome incidence of unresolved murder cases, missing persons, unidentified bodies and other numerous issues of homicide in Lagos State and Nigeria as a whole, a team of researchers and experts in forensic investigations from the University of South Florida in the United States of America,is… June 29, 2010 In "Health"