Following the death of  Flying Officer Tolulope Arotile at the Air Force Base, Kaduna in a car accident, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has begun strict inspection and screening of vehicles entering barracks. The driver who was said to be reversing before Arotile was killed allegedly had no driver’s license. Sunday Vanguard team witnessed during a visit to the NAF Base, Ikeja, Lagos that visitors vehicle particulars were strictly checked, with special attention paid to driver’s license by the Air Police sentries. Our correspondents reported that the same strict inspection of vehicles are now being strictly observed at military barracks across the country. In his reaction, Director of NAF Public Relations, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, said the  measures “were aimed at ensuring people driving in barracks possess driver’s licence as routine ‘Spot Check’ measures to ensure laws are obeyed.” Daramola disclosed, however, that nobody or vehicle is prevented from driving into or within NAF barracks, adding that such person’s ought to possess driving licence  and other documents as laid down by the law. Meanwhile, a delegation of senior female officers of the Nigeria Police has condoled with the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, over the death of Arotile. Daramola said the delegation was led by Assistant Inspector General of Police, AIG Aishatu Abubakar. Vanguard Flying Officer Tolulope Sarah Arotile, the first Nigerian female Combat Helicopter Pilot who died following head injuries sustained in Kaduna, when her Classmates of Airforce Secondary School 'accidentally' hit her is set for burial today at the National Military Cemetery in Abuja. The controversial circumstance surrounding Arotile's death has raised… July 23, 2020 In "News" 1. On 14 July 2020, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), and indeed the entire Nation, was thrown into mourning as a result of the death of one of our shining young stars in the person of Flying Officer Tolulope Arotile, the NAF’s first female combat helicopter pilot. Her unfortunate demise… July 19, 2020 In "News" ...Questions NAF report on her demise By Olayinka Ajayi The Federation of Yoruba Consciousness and Culture FYCC (ALAJOBI) has called for the arrest of those involved in fatal accident that led to the death of Nigeria's first female combat helicopter pilot, Tolulope Arotile. The group maintained that Tolu was murdered,… July 23, 2020 In "News"