Antonio Conte hopes Inter players feel at least “one per cent” of his disappointment following their 2-1 Serie A defeat to Bologna at San Siro on Sunday. Inter had forged ahead in the first half courtesy of Romelu Lukaku before Bologna’s Roberto Soriano received a red card for dissent after 57 minutes. Lautaro Martinez could have all but wrapped up the win from the penalty spot five minutes later but Lukasz Skorupski kept out his tame effort. That gave the impetus to the visitors, who roared back to steal a stunning winning thanks to goals in the final 16 minutes from Musa Juwara and Musa Barrow, either side of a red card for Inter’s Alessandro Bastoni. Conte, who spent close to an hour in the changing room with his side before talking to the media, could not hide his frustration and says his players should be angry at their display. “The disappointment is enormous, at least as far as I’m concerned,” he told reporters. “I hope this disappointment that I feel is also felt by the players for at least one per cent. “I am angry at myself because I’m the manager. I have my responsibilities; I am the one who directs the situation and it is right that I am very angry first of all with myself. Then I think that the players must also be with themselves.” The setback leaves Conte’s side four points behind second-placed Lazio and just one ahead of Atalanta in the battle for Champions League qualification. Conte is under no illusions that he is expected to win trophies at Inter and says he fully expects to be scrutinised when things do not go well. Fotmob Vanguard Claudio Ranieri admitted he would be "super happy" if Antonio Conte succeeded him as Roma coach after he took the club into the Serie A top four with a thumping win over Cagliari on Saturday. April 28, 2019 In "News" Romelu Lukaku fired Inter Milan back top of Serie A with the second goal of a 2-0 derby win that extended their perfect start to the season at the expense of city rivals AC Milan. September 21, 2019 In "News" French teenager Yann Karamoh scored the winner as Inter Milan ended a two-month victory drought to move back third with a 2-1 win against nine-man Bologna on Sunday. February 11, 2018 In "News"