Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has announced the resumption of both public and private schools beginning from August 3, 2020, after over three months of lockdown due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Sanwo-Olu announced this while giving an update on the COVID-19 situation report in the stare, held at Lagos House, Marina, Lagos. According to the Sanwo-Olu, Senior Secondary 3 and Technical 3 are to resume August. 3 while Junior Secondary 3 will wait for assessment for one week YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:  Other highlights of Governor’s address include: *The above applies to only day schools both public and private. Boarding schools remain shut *Other schools remain closed and continue online learning *Curfew remains 10 pm to 4 am *Social and Event Centres to remain closed *Religious and Worship Centres remain closed *Bars and Spars to remain closed *No Mass gathering of burials, weddings should be more than 20people *Public Service remains as it is. *Sports facilities within Residential Estates can open with not more than 20people *Businesses willing to open should register with Safety Commission on www.lasgsafetyreg.com *No Mask No Entry into facilities should be promoted Details later… Vanguard Boarding schools, churches, mosques, event centres, others remain shut Warns against illegal testing centres Curfew remains 10pm to 4am Selected state workers still to work from home By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has announced the resumption of both public and private schools beginning from August 3,… July 3, 2020 In "News" Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has announced the resumption of both public and private schools beginning from August 3, 2020 after over three months of lockdown due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. July 4, 2020 In "Education" In fulfillment of his promises to renew infrastructure in critical sectors, Lagos State Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu is to inaugurate housing, education, and road projects as part of activities to mark one year in the office. The state  Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, said in a statement on… May 25, 2020 In "News"