Members of Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), led by its chairman, Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni are currently in a closed door meeting with National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu at his Bourdillon residence, Ikoyi, Lagos. Others in the closed door meeting include: Secretary of Caretaker Committee of APC, Senator Akpan Udo-Edehe and APC Campaign Committee for Edo Election, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-olu At press time, 10 pm they are still at the meeting which started at about 9.pm. The meeting, it was learned, was part of the ongoing reconciliatory move following recent leadership crisis in the party. Recall that Tinubu had on Saturday showed support for the formation of an caretaker committee for the party as recommended by Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari. “The President has spoken and his decision has been accepted. It is now beholden on all of us, as members of the APC, to recommit ourselves to the ideals and principles on which our party was founded,” Tinubu said in a statement. “President Muhammadu Buhari is much more than a mere beneficiary of the [APC] party.” Tinubu’s statement was in reaction to claims that he had been marginalised by the leadership of the APC after it dissolved its national working committee on Thursday. The APC dissolved its national working committee based on the recommendations of Buhari whom political critics said allegedly plotted cutting down on Tinubu’s influence in the party. Buhari also called for the immediate suspension of all pending litigations involving the party and its members, as well as the ratification of the party’s governorship primary election recently conducted in Edo State. Vanguard As Buni, members meet Tinubu in Lagos By Olasunkanmi Akoni National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has expressed confidence and sincere support for the APC's Caretaker Committee, led by its Chairman, Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni. Tinubu made the remarks on Thursday,  after… July 3, 2020 In "Politics" The APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Thursday night declared that there were no differences to be sorted out at the party. Tinubu, also said, “there is no crisis in the party, hence, no fight to reconcile.” He made the declaration shortly after a closed-door meeting with Gov.… July 3, 2020 In "Politics" Reasons President Muhammadu Buhari moved against the suspended National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, emerged last night, as the  National Executive Committee, NEC, wielded the big stick to check the crisis ravaging the party and avert what the President described as self-destruction. June 26, 2020 In "Politics"