The Court of Appeal sitting in Lagos, on Friday struck out four of the 10 count charges filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC against Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, President, Paul Usoro, SAN and two others over alleged N1.4 billion fraud. Others mentioned in the charged include Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Finance, Nsikan Nkan; Accountant-General of the state, Mfon Udomah; state Attorney-General, Uwemedimo Nwoko, and Margaret Ukpe. Governor Emmanuel Udom was described in the charge as being “currently constitutionally immune from prosecution.” Justice Rilwan Aikawa of the Federal High Court, Lagos, had on May 30, 2019, dismissed an application filed by Udom, seeking to quash the entire charge preferred against Usoro and other defendants by the EFCC. Justice Aikawa held then that Udom’s application lacked merit because he was not a party to the suit. Dissatisfied with the ruling, Udom’s lawyer, Dr Charles Mekwunye filed an appeal against the court’s decision. The Court of Appeal on Friday in a unanimous judgement read by Justice Bello Aliyu allowed the appeal filed by Udom against the ruling of the Federal High Court. The court subsequently nullified four of the 10 counts which particularly alluded to Governor Udom’s involvement in the alleged crime. More details later… Vanguard A prosecution witness, Mrs Idongesit Udom on Monday told a Federal High Court in Lagos that she did not submit her mobile phones to the EFCC during an investigation of Paul Usoro. March 9, 2020 In "News" LAGOS—THE Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, yesterday, filed an alleged charge of N1.4 billion fraud against the President of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, Mr Paul Usoro, SAN. December 6, 2018 In "News" Udom Idongesit, a prosecution witness in the case of an alleged N1.4 billion money laundering involving Paul Usoro, President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), on Wednesday, told Justice Rilwan Aikawa of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos how a sum of N700 million was paid into Usoro’s… December 5, 2019 In "Metro"