AS the building  congestion at the port continues to raise concern by stakeholders, Executive Director, SIFAX Off Dock, Ibraheem Olugbade, has urged maritime operators to adopt the option of barge transportation of consignments from the Lagos ports. Olugbade said the challenges of congestion and traffic caused by bad access roads would be drastically reduce if credible alternative to road transportation like barge is encouraged by shipping lines and agents. According to him, “Shipping lines and agents should be encouraged to key into the use of barges for transfer in view of the poor state of the port access road. Aggressive transfer of cargoes through barges to the various off docks in Lagos will help decongest the port in a great way and help the port reach its maximum potentials”. A statement signed by Sifax Corporate Affairs Manager, Muyiwa Akande, noted that the Sifax boss also urged the Nigerian Shippers Council and other relevant agencies to execute the policy of establishing inland container depots in various parts of the country with more vigour as this will provide a very important leeway for the decongestion of Nigerian ports. “The idea of floating inland container depots or off docks in various parts of the country is a very good initiative by the government. Although it is yet to yield its desired result, there is a need to pursue its implementation with more commitment by all stakeholders. Off docks are still very much relevant in Nigeria’s maritime business model. They will always help to decongest the ports and bring about efficiency in port operations”. Olugbade further noted that SIFAX Group’s belief in off dock as a good port-decongestion strategy is responsible for the company’s massive investment in its current off dock facilities and acquisition of new ones in various locations across Lagos. This, he said, would enable agents to experience easier clearing process and faster consignment movement. On the indiscriminate siting of off docks in Lagos, Olugbade urged relevant government agencies to strictly enforce the policies that guide the off dock location in Lagos State, in order to avoid environmental hazards. Vanguard THE Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, is currently at war with some terminal operators over newly introduced charges, which Ms Hadiza Bala Usman, NPA's boss has warned agents and importers to ignore. September 19, 2018 In "Maritime Report" Worried by persistent gridlock in Apapa Ports, residents and business owners within the axis yesterday issued 21-day ultimatum to Federal Government to remove all articulated trucks or incur their wrath. December 14, 2018 In "News" THE Nigeria Customs Service, NCS, has been accused of contributing to the current congestions being experienced in the ports as empty containers that ought to have been inspected by the men and officers of the agency are abandoned for days on barges at the terminals’ waterfronts. August 28, 2019 In "Maritime Report"