Lagos State Government has confirmed that failed sections of the alternative route outlined for commuting for traffic management during the proposed Third Mainland Bridge rehabilitation commencing on Friday, 24th July 2020, have been repaired. Responding to questions raised concerning some failed sections of the alternative routes, state Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde on Friday, confirmed that Iddo inwards Carter Bridge, Market road inward Herbert Macaulay road, Herbert Macaulay road by Abeokuta street, Herbert Macaulay by Cemetery and Apapa inward Oyingbo have all been fixed. The six months repair works to be embarked on by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing is targeted at fixing the worn out expansion joints on the structure of the bridge. Oladeinde further explained that the first phase of the bridge rehabilitation would focus on Oworonshoki inward Lagos Island in the morning with traffic diversion from 12.00 midnight to 1.00 pm while the Lagos Island inward Oworonshoki will divert traffic in the afternoon from 1.pm to 12 midnight. The commissioner while notifying that different options being provided for motorists to navigate their journeys, advised motorists heading towards Ikeja and Ikorodu road from Osborne Road, Ikoyi in the morning to make use of Carter Bridge to access Eko Bridge through Ijora Olopa which will lead them through Funsho Williams Avenue to Doman Long Bridge to Ikorodu, or use Carter Bridge to Iddo through Oyingbo to Herbert Macaulay to Jibowu and link Ikorodu Road. Oladeinde urged motorists coming from Victoria Island to utilize Ozumba Mbadiwe Road to Falomo Bridge through Alfred Rewane to Old Kingsway Road, Osborn to Ilubirin and Catter Bridge. As a second option for this category of motorists, he advised them to take Bonny Camp to Independence Bridge to Marina Bridge through Apongbon to Eko Bridge, Ijora Olopa, Iddo and Oyingbo. In the Afternoon, Road users inbound Lagos Island are advised to ply: Ojota on Ikorodu road to access Funsho Williams Avenue through Eko Bridge/Apongbon axis or utilize Ikorodu road to access Fadeyi/jibowu/Yaba axis to access Oyingbo-Iddo to Carter Bridge Alternatively, the commissioner, stated that motorists can also use Oshodi/Charity through Agege Motor Road to access Cappa to link Ilupeju Bypass or Mushin to get to Town Planning Way to link Ikorodu road or access Moshalasi/Idi-Oro from Mushin to access Funsho Williams avenue and connect Eko Bridge to get to Apongbon or use Empire Road to access Yaba to link Oyingbo-Iddo axis. In the same vein, motorists coming from the International Airport to Lagos are advised to use Oshodi-Oke to get to Town Planning to link Ikorodu road. Oladeinde disclosed that repair works are ongoing on the remaining routes highlighted for traffic diversions to enhance free traffic flow along the corridor during the rehabilitation works. The commissioner as a way of reducing the high influx of vehicles during the closure, advised motorists who do not have urgent assignments on the Island to avoid the area from Friday 24th July 2020, while those that must visit the area should consider the use of the dedicated Bus Rapid Transit, BRT buses to further reduce traffic congestions on the repair corridor. He urged the road users to comply with the state’s Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), and the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on the laid down Traffic directions to minimize inconvenience in movement and ensure the smooth and uninterrupted flow of work on the bridge. The commissioner also advised residents to make use of the Water Transportation by linking up with the various jetties in the metropolis for their journeys. Oladeinde appealed, therefore, appealed to residents of the state, especially motorists that ply the corridors to bear the pains, as the project is aimed at ensuring the safety of the people in an emerging smart city. Vanguard As LASG releases alternative routes Sanwo-Olu appeals for understanding, cooperation By Olasunkanmi Akoni The Federal Government has announced the indefinite closure of Eko Bridge to enable an unhindered investigation to be carried out on the worn-out bearings noticed between Alaka and Costain portion, inwards Apongbon of the bridge for rehabilitation… March 11, 2020 In "News" The Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) has announced partial closure of some sections of Apongbon road inward Eko Bridge from Thursday. November 5, 2019 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni The Lagos State Government has announced plans to partially shut the Marine Beach Bridge by Total Gas, inwards Apapa for five months, effective from Wednesday, May 27 to Wednesday, October 21, 2020, for an emergency repair works. The project, state's Commissioner for Transport, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, said… May 24, 2020 In "News"