The Association of Local Government Vice Chairmen of Nigeria, ALGOVC, on Saturday, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to prevail on Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State to conduct local government elections in all the 21 councils in the state. The association’s National Chairman, Lawrence Onuchukwu, said in a statement in Abuja that the call became necessary as the tenure of the transition committees chairmen in all the councils expired over the weekend. He said in the first instance, Governor Obiano shouldn’t have allowed a vacuum to be created with the exit of the caretaker committee before conducting council polls for the emergence of democratically-elected council chairmen to replace them. According to Onuchukwu, “President Buhari, as the father of the nation, should please save Anambra people from this wicked act, by directing him to ensure that democratic process reaches the grassroots level in the state. “Currently, Governor Obiano wants to reconfirm the transition committee chairmen, whose tenure just ended, without due regards to having democratic representatives at the grassroots level in the state. “Already, with the refusal of the state assembly to approve the reconfirmation bid of the governor, there is an imminent logjam in the state, hence the need for the President to act immediately to save the ugly situation.” Onuchukwu, an indigene of Anambra State, who is the current Vice-Chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council, AMAC, regretted that Anambra people have long been denied the opportunity to be governed by their representatives at the lower level of governance. He said the expiration of committee chairmen’s tenure is another opportunity and it would be good for the governor to seize it and do the right thing by conducting the council polls for the first time in his administration. VANGUARD The Association of Local Government Vice Chairmen of Nigeria, ALGOVC, Saturday, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to prevail on the Anambra State Governor, Chief Willy Obiano to conduct Local Government Council elections in all the 21 LGAs in the state. July 18, 2020 In "News" ONITSHA—Barely 48 hours after Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State appointed transition caretaker council chairmen for the 21 local government areas in the state, the All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday, vowed to contest the appointments in a court of law if they were not dissolved immediately. March 31, 2017 In "News" National Chairman of Association of Local Government Vice Chairmen of Nigeria, ALGVCN, Hon. Lawrence Onuchukwu, in this interview with Vanguard in Abuja, said that the association was ready to sue state governors, who refuse to conduct local council polls in their states. May 21, 2019 In "News"