As the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic continues to spread especially at the community level, the National Association of Seadogs, NAS, has warned Nigerians to ignore insinuations in some quarters that the virus was a fraud, saying that it is real and dangerous. The association has also decried the negligence of the health sector by both the federal and state governments for a long time, saying that the devastating effect of the virus will serve as a wake-up call for the governments at all levels to provide the necessary infrastructure for Healthcare delivery. NAS also known as Pyrates Confraternity in its COVID-19 intervention, held a public sensitization campaign across the globe, with the aim of sensitizing Nigerians across spectra on COVID-19, challenges, mitigation and management. Speaking at the exercise, the Zuma chapter President of NAS, Anderson Kolawole Oseh explained that the association has taken up the responsibility as part of one of its cardinal objective, Comradeship and chivalry, which he said engenders the strong, the privileged, and the informed to protect and enlighten the weak and the uninformed. According to him, “In line with this objective, the association and its 59 chapters across the globe have undertaken this campaign today, (yesterday), 18th July, 2020.” Oseh lamented the rising number of deaths in Nigeria, the psychological trauma suffered by families of the deceased and the negative socio-economic impact nations have suffered. He further decried the speculation and propaganda in some quarters that COVID-19 is a fraud and the myth, stating that “COVID-19 is very real and community transmission is very rife, and citizens, we must at all times follow and obey all safety protocols for our collective safety and wellbeing., Also speaking, the President of Rockies Deck (Canada Chapter), Mr. Ogom Ugorji decried the gross negligence of the nation’s health infrastructure. He demanded for accountability from the federal and the 36 state governments and the re-engineering of the nation’s health sector. Ugorji called for the immediate responsiveness of all organs of government in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. On his part, President of Aurora Flotilla Deck (Kaduna chapter), Mr. Ogunbo Olakunle condemned the actions of some law enforcement agents in their high handedness in enforcement of government directives. The President of Pentagun Deck (Maryland USA Chapter), Mr. Dayo Popoola, while praising the government initiative on palliatives, demanded an equitable distribution of the palliative materials. As part of the campaign for the sensitization exercise, the association produced radio jingles, Tv advertorials, Newspaper publications, online media and banners strategically placed across the nation displaying the COVID-19 prevention message. Vanguard News Nigeria ABUJA--AS the global community celebrates the World Health Day, the National Association of Seadogs, NAS has called on the federal government to review the salary and welfare packages to Healthcare practitioners in the country so as to bring it at par with international best practices standards. April 7, 2020 In "News" African’s first Nobel Laureate for Literature, Prof. Wole Soyinka will be 80 in July and as the entire world rolls out drum to celebrate him, the National Association of Seadogs (Pyrates Confraternity) has mapped out its own plans for a unique celebration of the literary icon whom they described as… May 4, 2014 In "The Arts" The National Association of Seadogs, NAS, also known as the Pyrates Confraternity in Lagos State, carried out a Lassa fever Awareness Campaign within the state, Saturday 26 August, 2017, to sensitise the public on the dangerous nature of the disease, following the embarrassing outbreak of the disease again this year… August 26, 2017 In "News"