The Federal Government on Wednesday warned that for the one – day National Common Entrance Examination that would be conducted by NECO on Saturday, 17th October 2020, it is compulsory for parents and pupils to wear face masks on the exam date, while also carrying along with them, alcohol-based sanitizers. Minister of State for Education, Hon. Chukwuemeka Nwajuiba, who made the announcement today in Abuja after series of meetings with Chief Executives of examination bodies in the country said, the West African Examinations Council, (WAEC-SSCE) will start on August 17, 2020 while the National Business and Technical Examination Board, (NABTEB) examinations will start on the September 21, and end by October 15, 2020. Other details of the schedule, according to a statement by the Federal Ministry of Education, through its Director of Press and Public Relations, Bem Goong, “indicate that the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations, (SSCE) for SS3, conducted by NECO will start on the 5th of October and end on 18th of November, 2020.” “The Basic Education Certificate Examinations, (BECE) for JSS 3 also conducted by NECO, will start on the 24th of August and end on the 7th of September, 2020,” the statement added. It read in part: “Furthermore, the National Common Entrance Examination, (NCEE) which is a one-day NECO examination for intending applicants into Unity Colleges (JSS1) will run in-between the Senior Secondary Certificate Examinations i.e. on Saturday, 17th October, 2020. “Registration for the NECO (SSCE), which is on-going, will end on the 10th of September, 2020 and there shall be no extension for the registration whatsoever. “The statement further indicated that the National Board for Arabic and Islamic Studies, (NBAIS) examination will commence on Wednesday, 23rd September and end by 17th October, 2020. “The Minister, therefore, directed all examination bodies to release details of their examination timetables in the next seven days. “Present at the meeting which was chaired by the Honourable Minister of State for Education, were the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Arc. Sonny Echono, Registrar, Joint Admissions Matriculations Board, (JAMB), Prof. Is-haq Oloyede; Registar, National Examinations Council, (NECO), Prof. Godswill Obioma; Registrar, National Business and Technical Examination Board, (NABTEB) Prof. Ifeoma Isiugo-Abanihe; National Board for Arabic and Islamic Studies, (NBAIS) Dr. Raji as well as the Acting Registrar of the West African Examinations Council (WAEC), Dr. J.O. Oke.” Vanguard News Nigeria The West African Examinations Council, WAEC, exams for Senior Secondary School 3 (WASSCE) will start on August 17, according to a comprehensive schedule for various national examinations for exit classes spanning August 17 to November 18, 2020, as released by the Federal Government. July 29, 2020 In "Education" By Wole Mosadomi - Minna National Examinations Council,(NECO) has stated that it has not postponed the 2020 Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) and the Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) due to the prevailing situation in the Country. A Press Statement issued by the Head, Information and Public Relations Division of… April 8, 2020 In "Education" THE National Examinations Council (NECO) has the mandate to conduct five major examinations, namely, National Common Entrance Examination (NCEE), National Entrance Examination into Federal Unity Senior Secondary Colleges (NEEFUSSC), Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) and Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) (Internal and External). December 22, 2012 In "Interview"