ABUJA — SENIOR Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu Tuesday cautioned the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP to allow the process of investigation and prosecution of corruption allegation against the suspended acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, to work and not to unduly agitating the public. The presidential aide said President Buhari, who doubles as African Union (AU) Anti-Corruption Champion in Africa, has firmly assured Nigerians that he will not be deterred by baseless criticisms by the opposition in his determination to eradicate rampant, chronic corruption. Fielding questions from State House correspondents on issues raised by the PDP since the beginning of the interrogation of Magu, Shehu, said the volume and reach of the anti-corruption crusade so far reflect what the PDP left behind. He said corruption became so normalized by the PDP that they had difficulty defining what is “corruption” and “theft”. Shehu praised President Buhari’s determination to end corruption in the country as responsible for the number of highly publicized charges and cases. According to him, “The large number of cases, new and old, may appear to be daunting but PDP, which is now heckling the President, has forgotten that the party bequeathed this to the current administration. They had large number of cases they did not investigate and prosecute. ” He expressed hope that the Judiciary would deal with the cases swiftly and satisfactorily, in a manner that would deter other would-be offenders. “The current administration is handling many of the cases that the PDP should have dealt with and the new ones as they arise,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria The plea by the suspended acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission,EFCC, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, for bail, was, yesterday, greeted with mixed reactions from lawyers, who said the Presidential Investigation Panel lacks the power to detain him. July 12, 2020 In "Politics" •Lawyers divided over continued detention •Investigators storm Borno community, comb property – Source •Grumbling in EFCC over successor •‘How desperation for confirmation led him astray’ By Emma Nnadozie, Johnbosco Agbakwuru, DIrisu Yakubu, Yinka Ajayi & Nnamdi Ojiego   The plea by the suspended acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes… July 12, 2020 In "News" THE All Progressive Congress’s, APC, government of President Mohammadu Buhari was swept into power after last year's presidential election on the mantra of Change. It brought to an end the People Democratic Party, PDP, controlled government that had been in power for sixteen years (1999 to 2015). December 30, 2016 In "Viewpoint"