It was yet another intense week on the BBNaija Pepper Dem Reunion – maybe even more intense than the ones before it. Ebuka, the ultimate table shaker, delved into the romantic and near-romantic relationships in the house and as you would expect, there was DRAMA! No love lost between Elozonam and Diane This week, fans of the DiaLo ship mourned the demise of the relationship that never really was as Diane and Elozonam got more than a few things off their chest on the show. Their very heated arguments revealed that there is literally no love lost between the two. Elozonam accused Diane of putting other people before him and being disrespectful of what he thought they shared. Elozonam and Diane: The mystery name in the mix Somehow in the middle of Elozonam and Diane’s back and forth, Ebuka managed to let a vital information slip and the whole internet went crazy. The information? Mawuli Gavor. Apparently, the reason Diane and Elozonam’s relationship wasn’t making any headway just may have something to do with the Ghanaian actor. Elozonam confirmed as much, and Diane’s walk-out from the set of the show immediately the name was dropped did nothing to refute that confirmation. Why Frodd, Esther’s “Ship” never sailed These two’s relationship never really took off in or outside the house. It has never really looked like they were on the same page and from some of the revelations on the show this week, this may have a lot to do with trust, or the lack thereof. Frodd believes Esther has what he referred to as “friends in the upper echelon” who spoil her with expensive gifts. This didn’t sit well with Esther and resulted in a shouting match where she more or less called Frodd a gossip who couldn’t be trusted with secrets. Crack in Mercy & Ike’s “Ship” revealed These two may be the only BBNaija Pepper Dem “couple” whose relationship has stood the test of time but that doesn’t mean it’s all smooth sailing. Mercy revealed that for every time they have a little fight, Ike goes to social media to block her. When Ebuka asked Ike why he does this, he blamed it on Mercy’s erratic disposition to their relationship. The Frodd, Venita and Omashola love triangle. We all saw the boys’ reaction to Venita when she first entered the house but this week, we caught an even bigger glimpse into just how much of an effect she had on them, especially Frodd and Omashola. Both revealed that when she came into the house, they felt like an angel had been sent to them. Omashola expressed his hurt over Frodd’s pursuit of Venita even after he (Omashola) had told him that he was interested in her. VANGUARD Fans of Africa’s biggest reality TV show, BBNaija, were on Tuesday night introduced to two brand new housemates – Venita andElozanam! The introduction of the new housemates follows an announcement made by show host Ebuka, during Sunday’s eviction show, regarding a “twist” in the coming week. July 31, 2019 In "Entertainment" During last Sunday’s eviction show, BBNaija host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, revealed that there would be no evictions the following week. The housemates, unaware of this latest twist, made their way to the diary room on Monday night to nominate two of their fellow housemates for possible eviction as usual. September 20, 2019 In "Entertainment" There has never been a season of the Big Brother show without some form of romance lighting up the scene and Big Brother Naija Season 4 is no exception. BBNaija: Fans hail new housemates Venita, Elozonam(Opens in a new browser tab) The first real couple to get over the line,… August 11, 2019 In "News"