The girlfriend of President Donald Trump’s eldest son has tested positive for coronavirus, US media reported Friday. Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former Fox News television personality who is dating Donald Trump Jr, had traveled to South Dakota to see the US president’s Fourth of July speech and celebration fireworks at Mount Rushmore. Guilfoyle, 51, was immediately isolated after discovering she had the virus in a routine test conducted on anyone expected to come in close contact with the president, the New York Times reported. In a statement to the newspaper, Sergio Gor, chief of staff to the Trump campaign’s finance committee, said: “She’s doing well, and will be retested to ensure the diagnosis is correct since she’s asymptomatic.” He added: “As a precaution (she) will cancel all upcoming events. Donald Trump Jr was tested negative, but as a precaution is also self-isolating and is canceling all public events.” Trump Jr’s girlfriend, Guilfoyle is the third person close to the US president to return a positive COVID-19 test, US media reported. Others include Trump’s personal valet and the US vice president’s press secretary. The pandemic has claimed nearly 130,000 American lives and a recent resurgence “puts the entire country at risk,” top infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci has said. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. A top Brazilian political aide tested positive for coronavirus days after he met with Donald Trump, according to Brazilian news outlets. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro’s press secretary, Fabio Wajngarten, accompanied his boss at a dinner with Trump at Mar-A-Lago on Saturday. On Wednesday, Brazilian newspaper Folha de São Paulo reported… March 12, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" President Donald Trump unleashed his fury against those who tried to remove him from office at a prayer breakfast Thursday, a day after his acquittal by the Senate in his impeachment trial. Speaking from a stage where he was joined by congressional leaders, including Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who… February 6, 2020 In "Foreign" Donald Trump Jr. will testify publicly before a congressional committee probing Russia's meddling in the 2016 presidential campaign and possible collusion by his father's campaign, a Democratic senator said Sunday. September 17, 2017 In "News"