On the backdrop of fall in  Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) across the 36 states of the federation, investment experts at FBNQuest, the investment banking arm of First Bank of Nigeria Limited, have called for a review of the tax collection efforts by the various state governments in Nigeria in order to boost their revenue. They stated this in a research report titled, “IGR Still in Need of a Boost”. The aggregate internally generated revenue for the 36 states and FCT fell to N1.3 trillion in 2019 from N1.7 trillion in the previous year. They condemned the unhealthy dependence by the state governments on the monthly payout by the  Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC). The report stated: “The anthem on boosting capacity and internal revenue has been overplayed and yielded minimal results to date. Apart from private sector collaborations, state governments need to review tax collection efforts and coordinate with their respective local governments, drawing heavily on technology. “The breakdown of IGR shows that aggregate Pay As You Earn (PAYE) income tax accounted for 59 percent of total IGR in Q4. The weakest links with regards to revenue generated from the PAYE system were Taraba, Oyo, Kebbi, Katsina and Gombe states. These states achieved less than one percent of total aggregate PAYE revenue. “For these states, jobs are predominantly within the informal sector. Hence most indigenes fall outside the tax net and as such, the states record very low contributions from PAYE income tax. Tax collection by agencies needs to be strengthened; better data collection would assist with achieving this goal.” Vanguard The revenue of the states in the country will be further strained in the coming months owing to their rising debt portfolio and cost of servicing those debts. December 7, 2018 In "Business" These are the types of statements expected of our State Governments given the current direction of the economy. Taking a short step back into history, it is clear that Oil became the major source of Nigeria’s revenue in the 1970s while other sectors of the economy which had put Nigeria… April 19, 2015 In "Business" Dr. Kayode Ajulo, a lawyer, is Managing Partner, Castle of Law and Chairman, Egalitarian Mission for Africa. Ajulo shares his perspective on the controversial minimum wage for workers in the 36 states of the federation. January 12, 2020 In "News"