ABUJA — The Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal, on Saturday, upheld the election victory of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. The appellate court, in separate unanimous judgements by a five-man panel led by Justice Adamu Jauro, dismissed four appeals that challenged the return of Governor Bello as valid winner of the gubernatorial election that held in the state on November 16, 2019. The appellate court held that the appeals, which sought to upturn earlier verdicts of Kogi State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal that affirmed Bello of the All Progressives Congress, APC, as winner of the governorship contest, lacked merit. The court said it found no reason to dislodge decision of the tribunal that the petitioners failed to prove their case to warrant the nullification of Independent National Electoral Commission’s declaration that governor Bello garnered the highest number of valid votes cast at the election. Consequently, the appellate court, dismissed the four appeals that were filed against INEC, governor Bello and APC, by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, the Actions People’s Party, APP, the Social Democratic Party, SDP, and the Democratic People’s Party, PDP. Vanguard Nigeria News By Ikechukwu Nnochiri - Abuja The Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal, on Saturday, upheld the election victory of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. The appellate court, in separate unanimous judgements by five-man panel led by Justice Adamu Jauro, dismissed four appeals that challenged the return of Governor… July 4, 2020 In "Politics" The Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal, on Thursday, declined to sack Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State from office, even as it dismissed two appeals that sought to invalidate his election. August 4, 2016 In "News" RESPITE came the way of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, yesterday, as the Supreme Court, in a unanimous judgment by seven-man panel of justices, upheld the election that brought him to power. The panel, headed by Justice Sylvester Nwuta, dismissed as lacking in merit four separate appeals that challenged… September 21, 2016 In "News"