Apex Igbo socio- cultural group,Ohanaeze Ndigbo,  has expressed optimism that an Igbo will succeed Buhari in 2023. Ohanaeze in a statement signed by its Spokesman Chuks Ibegbu  noted that “with the mood of the nation today, an Igbo will hopefully succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023 but  that should not stop Ndigbo from marching on to realise the dream of Igbo Stabilisation Fund. If we succeed in Igbo land,   it will rub off on the rest of Nigeria and Nigerians will also be happy. Nigeria has no business with poverty . Our people need to be healthy and happy but our politicians   , past and present have looted us dry with our parasitic elites” Ohanaeze also saluted Nnia Nwodo  and South East governors for initiating the Igbo Stabilisation Fund,  noting that if pursued vigorosly, it will make Igbo land a paradise on earth and wipe away their tears. Ibegbu in a statement called on Ndigbo in the diaspora , intelligenstia, business moguls, scientists and entrpreuners to invest in the programme and make Igbo land the toast of the world. Ibegbu in a statement said: “It can be done with Igbo energy. It’s possible. Igbo land can be better than Dubai, California, Paris and many civilized cities.  We can do it with or without external support. We want Nigerians to come to Igbo land and feel very comfortable and happy and invest too. We want  to have a working rail, sea ports,clean cities, industrial emporium,world class health and educational facilities. We want Igbos all over the world to key into this project. We want more cities to be developed in Igbo land and abandoned cities revived.This is the dream of Dr M. I. Okpara and today, Chief Nnia Nwodo. We can do it. We can make Igbo land the centre of attraction in Africa and this will rub off on Nigeria. “Let the Arthur Ezes, Ubas, Innosons, IWA, our billionaires and every Igbo patriot invest in this project. Let us have six lane roads. speed rails, seaports , skyscrappers, beautiful cities and agricultural revolution. This is a big challenge to Ndigbo and we owe this to the three million people we lost in the past,” Ibegbu said. Vanguard A pressure group, The Igbo Leaders of Thought, led by foremost constitutional lawyer, Prof. Ben Nwabueze, SAN, yesterday commenced legal proceedings against the election of the new executives of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the pan-Igbo socio-cultural organisation that took place on Tuesday. January 12, 2017 In "News" OWERRI—THE recent endorsement of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar by apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has continued to attract reactions from several quarters. January 28, 2019 In "News" ENUGU—Apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Alaigbo Foundation, Igbo National Congress, among others, yesterday, agreed that a president of Igbo extraction  is achievable in 2023 as the Igbo are working towards its realization. July 2, 2020 In "News"