 Two health care giants, DRO Health and Emzor Pharmaceuticals, yesterday, partnered on providing quality health care services via medical mobile app and devices to Nigerians amid Coronavirus, COVID-19 pandemic. This was disclosed by the Founder, DRO Health, Dr Ifeanyi Iwuchukwu, while speaking on the decision for his company to partner with Emzor Pharmaceuticals. According to Iwuchukwu the collaboration is to launch DRO Health’s new ‘ORDERS’ feature on its medical app that allows patients to make order over-the-counter and prescription. He also added that this service is part of his company’s quality, convenient and affordable health care service to Nigerians, and also to reduce stress of going out searching for pharmaceutical shop or outlets especially now it is not too safe to go about in the midst of raging Coronavirus in public places. He said: “Teaming up with Emzor Pharmaceuticals was a natural move for DRO Health because it guarantees users access to top quality drugs directly from the manufacturer and as the leading pharmaceutical company in Nigeria, Emzor Pharmaceuticals is instrumental to executing that promise. “In collaboration with Emzor Pharmaceuticals, DRO Health is launching its new ‘Orders’ feature which allows patients to order over-the-counter and prescription medications from their mobile app. This is honouring its commitment to providing quality, convenient, and affordable healthcare for Nigerians. “With the prevalence of the COVID-19 pandemic, telemedicine is able to provide users with access to doctors, medication, and diagnostic testing from the comfort of their home. “DRO Health is committed to putting the safety of its users first by making quality healthcare and drugs accessible to our users without needing to leave their home. “Users can now get doctors consultations on their mobile device and order much-needed medication after consultations to be delivered to their doorstep.” He added that “DRO Health is available to download on the Google Play Store and the App Store, for Android and iOS users respectively. Vanguard By Sola Ogundipe In response to the community transmission phase of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria, Emzor Pharmaceutical Industries recently rolled out its COVID-19 Response Programme tagged Emzor Cares. In the views of the Group Business Development Manager, Emzor Pharmaceutical Industries, Lagos and Ogun states, Ms Chinyere Kelvin, the programme… May 11, 2020 In "Health" Concerned about Its damaging effects on youths and children, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Emzor Pharmaceuticals Industries Limited, Lagos, Dr. Stella Okoli, has expressed worry over the problem of drug abuse in the country. May 15, 2018 In "Health" *Unveils credit, forex funding for 10 drug firms *To engage correspondents banks, others on trade commitments By Babajide Komolafe The Bankers Committee yesterday directed that all oil firms and related companies should henceforth sell their dollars only to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and no longer to the Nigeria… March 21, 2020 In "Business"