South Africa’s Trade Minister, Ebrahim Patel, on Saturday tested positive for COVID-19, the cabinet said, the fourth minister to contract the virus in Africa’s hardest-hit country. Cabinet spokeswoman Phumla Williams said in a statement that Patel, 58, received his results on Saturday. “Minister Patel is in good spirits and is in self-quarantine, and will continue to work from home,” Williams said. “Those that have been in contact with the Minister are also in self-isolation and have been encouraged to get tested,” she added. Four ministers and several MPs have so far contracted coronavirus in South Africa, which has the highest numbers of diagnosed infections in Africa and ranks fifth in the world after the United States, Brazil, India and Russia. On Monday, both Labour Minister, Thulas Nxesi, 61, and Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe, 65, were separately admitted to hospital with the virus. The fourth is Defence Minister, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, who has since recovered. To date, South Africa’s recorded cases of coronavirus is about 434,200 with at least 6,655 of whom have died. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Two South African cabinet ministers have been hospitalised with coronavirus, the government announced on Tuesday. Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi, 61, and Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe, 65, were separately admitted to hospital on Monday. Cabinet spokeswoman Phumla Williams said in a statement that they were hospitalised on the advice of… July 21, 2020 In "News" More than 200 pupils and staff who returned to a boarding school in South Africa's Eastern Cape province this month tested positive for coronavirus (COVID-19) on Tuesday, officials said. Eastern Cape accounts for around 15 percent of South Africa's 101,590 COVID-19 cases, making it the country's third worst affected province.… June 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" South Africa began to gradually ease its strict coronavirus lockdown on Friday, allowing some industries to reopen after five weeks of restrictions that plunged its struggling economy deeper into turmoil. The economy of Africa's most industrialised nation was already teetering with low growth and high debts when the lockdown kicked… May 1, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"