The People’s Democratic Party has called for prayers for the speedy recovery of Gov. Dave Umahi of Ebonyi, the wife of Benue governor, Eunice Ortom, and other Nigerians, who have tested positive to COVID-19. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement on Saturday in Abuja, described the increase in the spread of the pandemic across the country as disturbing. Ologbondiyan, however, restated the party’s call on Nigerians not to succumb to fear, but redouble their vigilance and adherence to preventive measures of personal hygiene, social and physical distancing as well as early reporting of symptoms. He urged Nigerians not to let down their guard, but remain conscious of the reality of the virus, especially with the easing of social restrictions in the country. “The party urged the Federal Government to intensify efforts in awareness campaign as well as providing economic stimulus to minimise social exposure and vulnerability of Nigerians in various sectors of endeavours,’’ he stated. Ologbondiyan restated PDP’s call for the commitment of all citizens in reciprocating the sacrifices of the health workers and others in the front lines to defeat the pandemic in the country. Vanguard By Dirisu Yakubu The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has called for prayers for the speedy recovery of Ebonyi State governor, Dave Umahi, the wife of Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom, Eunice, as well as other Nigerians who have tested positive to COVID-19. The PDP described the increase in the spread… July 4, 2020 In "News" ABUJA- The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Wednesday, called on Nigerians to pray for the speedy recovery of Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, his wife, Edith, as well as other leaders and Nigerian citizens following their positive test to the coronavirus. July 1, 2020 In "News" The National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Kola Ologbondiyan has asked Governor. Yahaya Bello to apologise to the people of Kogi State for misleading them on COVID-19 June 1, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"