MEMBERS of the Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria, ASCSN, have elected Innocent Bola-Audu, as its President to run the affairs of the association for the next four years. At the 4th Quadrennial National Delegates Conference in Abuja, members of the association also elected the following into the new team to drive ASCSN to the next level. The four National Vice Presidents are Kennis Ngene, Olubunmi Fajobi, Dr. Tommy Okon and Adah Terlumun. Others are National Treasurer – Rahab Maigari, National Internal Auditor – Dounana Tari, and National Trustee – Shehu Mohammed. In the same vein, elected as Ex-Officio members are Amodu Isiaka, Okere Ejike, Babayo Hamma, Haroun Mubashiru and Prince Excellent Efedhoma. In his acceptance speech,  the new President said the new team was well aware of the expectations judging from the achievements of his predecessor, Bobboi Kaigama. He added: “I solicit for your (other elected persons) total support knowing full well that we are all in a sailing ship and, as such, should pool our intellect together to steer it successfully for the benefits of all our members. “I must also state that our members should always feel free to offer suggestions to us, since we believe in open door policy and have faith in the fact that nobody has a monopoly of knowledge. “Above all, we pray for God’s guidance and protection  as we embark on these arduous national assignments of protecting the jobs of our teaming members and pursuing other welfare issues that will lift their living standards.” VANGUARD The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria, TUC, weekend elected Quadri Olaleye, of Food Beverage and Tobacco Senior Staff Association, FOBTOB,  as its new President taking over from Bobboi Kaigama, of Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria, ASCSN. July 1, 2019 In "News" The federal government yesterday said it had saved over N37 billion from misapplications, mistakes and non-compliance by MDAs to the agreed template. April 17, 2019 In "News" PRESIDENT-GENERAL of Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria, ASCSN, Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama,  has  said that addressing the welfare needs of  members; key investment initiatives and massive training and retraining of members, have been responsible for enviable state of the  association today November 16, 2017 In "News"