British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to begin phasing out the use of Chinese tech giant Huawei’s technology in Britain’s 5G network as soon as this year, the Daily Telegraph reported on Saturday. Officials are drawing up proposals to stop installing new Huawei Technologies equipment in the 5G network in as little as six months, and to speed up the removal of technology that is already in place, the newspaper reported. The move comes after the nation’s spy agency, GCHQ, raised new security fears over Chinese technology. A report prepared by GCHQ’s National Cyber Security Centre concluded that new US sanctions on Huawei will force the company to use untrusted technology that could make the risk impossible to control, the newspaper said. The sanctions have had a “severe” impact on the firm that significantly changes GCHQ’s calculations, the report said. The report is expected to be presented to Johnson this week. Johnson’s spokesman said earlier this week that officials will soon complete a review of the implications of the latest US sanctions, which are aimed at cutting off Huawei’s access to US chip makers. Tech Central Vanguard The head of British (UK) telecommunications giant BT said Monday that it would be "impossible" to remove controversial Chinese giant Huawei's equipment from Britain's infrastructure in under 10 years. BT chief executive Philip Jansen, speaking to the BBC, also warned that Britain could suffer "outages" and potential security risks if… July 13, 2020 In "Technology" The United Kingdom (UK) will reduce Chinese tech giant Huawei's controversial involvement in its 5G network in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the Daily Telegraph reported Saturday. UK's Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, gave the green light to Huawei's participation in January, despite widespread domestic opposition and pressure from the… May 23, 2020 In "Technology" Chinese telecoms giant Huawei expects to see a 21 percent rise in revenue for 2018, its chairman said Thursday despite a year of "unfair treatment" which saw its products banned in several countries over security concerns. December 27, 2018 In "News"