The Federal Government, through the Defence Headquarters, has reintegrated 601 ex-Boko Haram terrorists including 14 foreign nationals from Cameroon, Chad and Niger into the society through their respective national and state authorities. Coordinator of Operation Safe Corridor, Major General Bamidele Shafa, disclosed this on Saturday at the DRR Camp in Mallam Sidi, Gombe State. Shafa said the concept of Operation Safe Corridor was a unique non-kinetic operation aimed at giving hope to ex-combatants, who willingly give up their arms to embrace peace. He said, “On arrival at the camp, the clients went through documentation processes to obtain vital background information after which they were subjected to comprehensive medical screening to determine their health status. “Their DNA samples were also collected while their biometrics were captured on national data using the National Identity Management Commission facilities for future references. “The background information serves as guide for the experts; Local Treatment Team (LTT) to properly place the clients for treatment therapies and vocational training. “The LTT are specialised experts in various fields of deradicalisation and rehabilitation therapies drawn from the Nigeria Correctional Service.” The repentant terrorists were also made to swear an oath of allegiance to the federal republic of Nigeria and were told that any recourse to criminality in whatever form will result to loss of all the privileges they are entitled to, while they would face the full wrath of the law when caught. Recall that the Defence headquarters had disclosed a fortnight ago that the DRR programme, which is a multi-agency programme under Operation Safe Corridor (OPSC), had recorded tremendous success since inception in 2016. Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche had in a briefing disclosed that that Operation Safe Corridor had so far admitted 893 ex-combatants for the programme out of which 280 including two Chadians had earlier been successfully reintegrated back into the society through their respective national and state authorities. He pointed out that the DRR programme is being administered by 468 staff drawn from 17 organisations including the armed forces, International NGOs, law enforcement and security agencies, other Federal Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). Vanguard News Nigeria By Kingsley Omonobi – Abuja The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche on Thursday disclosed that since the inception of Operation Safe Corridor in 2016 for repentant Boko Haram terrorists, 893 ex-combatants have been admitted for the Programme out of which 280 including two Chadians have been successfully… June 11, 2020 In "News" Some 602 repentant Boko Haram members, on Monday, denounced their membership of the group and swore Oath of Allegiance to the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The ex-insurgents who have completed a de-radicalisation, rehabilitation and reintegration programme, denounced their membership of the insurgent group at the Malam Sidi Camp in Kwami… July 13, 2020 In "News" By Kingsley Omonobi – Abuja Military authorities on Thursday confirmed that one of the most wanted and notorious bandit leader, responsible for operating several bandit camps in Zamfara, Katsina and Kaduna state, ‘Yellow’ has been killed following Nigerian Airforce airstrikes in Katsina and Zamfara states which killed scores of the… June 11, 2020 In "News"