A staff of the Benin Electricity Distribution Company, BEDC, is currently battling for his life at a private hospital in Ughelli, headquarters of Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State after he was attacked by some persons claiming to be members of BEDC Electricity Task Force. The task force, according to eyewitnesses at the scene of the incident, claimed to have been set up by the Branch Manager, Mr Bethel Ebiuwhe to assist the company in its renewed drive of debt collection within and around Ughelli district. Trouble was said to have started at the Okiki street axis of Uloho Avene when the victim, Samuel Ojomu who said he is the route marshal of the area, accosted members of the task force and demanded that they properly identify themselves after discounting the electricity supply of some customers in the area. Recounting his ordeal to Vanguard on his hospital bed, the victim said: “I received a call from one of my customers this morning (Monday) that some persons who could not properly identify themselves have disconnected his light and are demanding for huge sum of money before he will be reconnected. “When I got to the house, I saw one of our (BEDC) drivers named Paul who used to drive the Branch Manager and some other persons who are not our staff. When I confronted them, they said they are task force members set up by the BM to monitor what’s happening in the field. “Being the Route Marshal covering the area and identifying some of them as none-BEDC staff, I then brought out my phone to snap them and immediately I did that, they attacked me with broken bottles and other dangerous weapons and inflicted stab wounds on my head, face and other parts of my body.” Contacted, the Branch Manager declined comments on the matter while the BEDC Public Relations Officer in charge of the area, Helen Ogagarue, said she is not aware of the incident. Vanguard A technician said to be working at the Ughelli branch office of Benin Electrical Distribution Company, BEDC, was, weekend, electrocuted while carrying out mass disconnection exercise at the low-cost housing area of Ughelli, Delta State. March 26, 2018 In "News" By Jimitota Onoyume, Ughelli Agbarho and several communities in Ughelli north local government area have been in darkness for over a week. Residents of Agbarho who spoke to the Vanguard said the power outage started since penultimate Thursday, appealing to the  Benin Electricity Distribution Company, BEDC  to take steps to fix the… October 21, 2019 In "News" By Perez Brisibe UGHELL—TRAVELLERS on the Ughelli axis of East-West Road were, yesterday, stranded for over four hours as hundreds of protesting women from Ughelli and surrounding communities shut the road over what they described as the continuous estimated billings by Benin Electricity Distribution Company, BEDC. Vehicular movement and commercial… August 3, 2018 In "News"