First Bank of Nigeria Limited will this week hold a Business Clinic to promote the growth and sustainability of the educational sector, especially in the light of the coronavirus which is having an adverse effect on the operations of school across the world.  “Managing Your School through the Pandemic: Engagement and Retention Strategies,” is the topic of the event and will be discussed by experts, leading players, policy influencers and proprietors in business and education management that have carved a niche for themselves at promoting the growth of education and business towards impacting the national economy.  The panelists at the event include; Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, Honourable Commissioner of Education, Lagos State; Dr Yomi Otubela, President, National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS); Wale Abioye, Team Lead, Customer Practice in Management Consulting (KPMG); Babatunde Vaughan, Education Lead, Modern Classroom Microsoft Nigeria; Tinu Aluko, Proprietor, Busy Bee & West Mills and Bankole Adediran, Head Transaction Banking Products, First Bank of Nigeria Limited.  Speaking on the event, Mr. Gbenga Shobo, Deputy Managing Director, FirstBank said “the education sector remains the bedrock of the growth and development of any nation – without a viable educational system, the human capital would be incapable of driving national growth and development. FirstBank is delighted to convene this event as it reinforces our leading role at enabling the growth of the educational sector in the country, over the years.  “A recent example is the current pandemic in which the bank has spearheaded the continued learning of school children, with a view to moving over one million Nigerians to e-learning, an exciting journey that has had over 45,000 active participants on the respective platforms, notably Roducate and IBM.  “We appreciate the panelists invited to speak and we look forward to the knowledge and ideas that would be deliberated towards having participants enlightened on essential activities to not just sustain their schools but reinforce its growth against the odds of COVID-19. We implore players, policy influencers, school and business owners as a whole to register and participate in the event because indeed there is knowledge for everyone,” he concluded. Vanguard  First Bank of Nigeria Limited will this week hold a Business Clinic to promote the growth and sustainability of the educational sector, especially in the light of the coronavirus which is having an adverse effect on the operations of school across the world. “Managing Your School through the Pandemic: Engagement… July 20, 2020 In "Business" FIRST Bank of Nigeria Limited said it has supported educational institutions in the country with N10 billion loans in the last ten years. January 20, 2020 In "Business" First  Bank of Nigeria Limited and  Microsoft 4Afrika, will on Friday, promote technology adoption and skills development in a different way, when they will jointly host a free-to-attend event for SMEs in Nigeria. January 16, 2019 In "Technology"