A cross section of Yoruba  leaders has asked the army authorities to ensure that former theatre commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, Major-General Olusegun Adeniyi, is safe in custody. There are reports that Adeniyi is to face a court-martial. A court martial is a legal proceeding for military officers. It is similar to a civilian court trial. Adeniyi was all over the news in March when a video where he complained of the lack of weapons for troops fighting Boko Haram insurgents went viral. After the video, he was removed as commander of Operation Lafiya Dole and transferred to the Nigerian Army Resource Centre in Abuja. He was later moved to the Army Headquarters, still in Abuja. At a meeting on the platform of the Yoruba Summit Group, YSG, in Lagos during the weekend, Rueben Fasoranti, Afenifere leader; Ayo Adebanjo, leader of Yoruba World Congress, YWC, Banji Akintoye, chairman of Voice of Reason, VOR, Olusegun Mimiko, former governor of Ondo State, demanded justice for Adeniyi. Others, who attended the meeting are Oye Ibidapo-Obe, former vice-chancellor of the University of Lagos; Yinka Odumakin, spokesman of Afenifefre; and Gani Adams, a leader of the O’dua Peoples’ Congress, OPC. The leaders said the plight of soldiers on the battlefront is well known, adding that no one should be punished for speaking the truth. They also demanded an investigation into the death of Tolulope Arotile, Nigeria’s first female helicopter pilot, who died in a freak accident earlier in the month. The leaders called on the federal government to constitute an independent panel of inquiry to look into the death of Arotile, alleging that there is more to the death of the late Arotile than being reported. “We are also aware of the initial casual manner Tolulope Arotile’s killing was treated by the authorities of the Nigerian Air Force which is capable of raising suspicion in the minds people. It is better to quickly douse tension and apprehension by coming out in the open,” they said in a communique issued at the end of the meeting. “The authorities did not imagine that so much noise would be made, and so many questions would be asked. Her death was treated with levity, just as many other cases where the lives of Nigerians do not seem to matter anymore. “The Yorùbá nation therefore demands a full-scale independent investigation by an inclusive panel of experts. The Yorùbá nation notes with sadness that on the very day our daughter Tolulope went home, a senior Military officer: Major General Olusegun Adeniyi was court-martialled for daring to voice out the lack of tools and equipment needed to prosecute a Boko Haram war that has become far too prolonged and far too controversial in light of the numerous calls to the Federal Government to change the Military ’Service Chiefs who have failed to provide the highest quality of security, leadership and delivery of forthrightness in their duties. “We the Yorùbá condemn in strong terms, the cherry-picking of our fighters, soldiers, officers as either cannon fodders easy-targets, operational fall-guys and being used for experimental disciplinary measures, whilst the real culprits, go free! “Critical to this development are also pieces of news items of friendly fire from soldiers of a particular part of the country using their guns on our fighters who dare carry the battle deep into the Boko Haram held territories.” Vanguard ....Lauds COAS, Buratai's patriotism The Progressive Yoruba Youth Congress (PYYC) has warned what it termed ethnic bigots to steer clear of the military and avoid politicizing its internal administrative matters. PYYC's caution trails the manner the recent reshuffling of senior officers was interpreted in some quarters despite being an obvious… April 2, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian Army has court-martialed two soldiers for manslaughter and desertion, while fighting Boko Haram insurgency and terrorism under Operation Lafiya Dole in the North-East of the country. February 2, 2017 In "Crime Guard" Kingsley Omonobi – Abuja Troops of Operation Lafiya Dole have captured 16 key members of the Boko Haram/Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) including two of the most wanted commanders in the watch list of the Nigerian Army and the group that killed some police personnel in Pulka last… October 22, 2019 In "News"