Russia and China are trying to undermine United States (US) democracy in the run-up to November’s presidential election, Joe Biden said, citing intelligence briefings he is now receiving. “The Russians are still engaged in trying to delegitimize our electoral process. Fact,” the presumptive Democratic challenger said at a fundraiser on Friday according to the Washington Post. “China and others are engaged as well in activities that are designed for us to lose confidence in the outcome,” he added. It is normal for presidential nominees of the major parties to have intelligence briefings, though it is not clear when Joe Biden started to receive his. On June 30 he said he may ask for a briefing, but that he had not been offered one up until then. Security officials warned at the end of last year foreign adversaries would attempt to interfere in the 2020 elections, to “undermine our democratic institutions, influence public sentiment and affect government policies.” United States intelligence found that Russia intervened in the 2016 elections to support Donald Trump, who has bristled at the charges and called for better ties with Putin. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. US President-elect Donald Trump has accepted the country’s intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia engaged in cyber attacks during the U.S. presidential election, his incoming chief of staff, Reince Priebus said on Sunday. January 9, 2017 In "News" Hunter Biden, acknowledging that his family name created business opportunities, rejected assertions by the United States President Donald Trump that he did anything wrong by engaging in foreign work in Ukraine and China. But Biden, the son of former US Vice President Joe Biden, conceded that he failed to take… October 16, 2019 In "Foreign" President Donald Trump signed an executive order Wednesday allowing punitive sanctions on foreigners who interfere in US elections, two years after Russia allegedly meddled in his favor in the presidential campaign. September 12, 2018 In "News"