African road users are requesting the introduction of revolutionary mobile navigational app, NEXIT in Africa to revolutionalise road trip experience in the continent as it has done in the United States of America. Most of the motorists who say they read about the app on the internet, said they believe African road users would have satisfactory experience with the app within the first three months of introduction in Africa, because the harrowing experience of stopping at eateries and gas stations not knowing what to expect, while travelling, is such that everybody would want to do away with. A Nigerian motorist, Uba Ekenedilichukwu, said: “I’ve read about this innovative app. I wish it will be introduced here. It’s a harrowing experience for us to just branch off at any restaurant on the way, not knowing their hygiene level or how affordable their food can be. “But from the account of those who have used it in America, it is what we need here. I think we actually need it more than the people it is serving at the moment.” His counterpart in Ghana, Mr. Kweku Achimpong, said the features of the app looks more like Africa is the reason it was developed. Achimpong said: “I don’t know the intention of the people who developed this app by limiting it to the United States. Africa is actually where it is needed. There is market for it here.” With NEXIT, motorists not only get relevant travel information while driving, they can customise their stops; search for specific hotels or restaurants or which gas stations with cheaper prices, all on the same app without leaving the app or shuffling in-between third party apps. NEXIT seems to fill the void left by other maps and scores of road users who have downloaded the app on Apple iOS https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nexit/id1466222160, say the American road users couldn’t have had it better. Nexit demystifies the age-long saying that one never knows what lies ahead, because it tells you what lies ahead and how long it takes you to get there. Nexit is the all-in-one navigation app to power the perfect road trip. Designed as the next generation in mobile mapping, Nexit provides turn-by-turn navigation and the ability to find exactly what the user is looking for, when it is needed, particularly on the go. Nexit users can search for any combination of restaurants, hotels, shopping, attractions, the cheapest gas and more, based on price, distance and specific features. An intuitive road-trip app that predicts where the user is going and shows him or her what is at each exit. The app is equivalent to the highway-driving copilot every road user always wanted, right on the phone. Nexit can anticipate the route and shows the user road-trip-relevant restaurants, hotels, gas stations, shops, and attractions up ahead, grouped by exit. Turn-by-turn voice and visual directions will guide the user to any stops he may select, while incorporating up-to-date traffic information for fastest movement. Nexit will only show places along one’s route, so the user never doubles back or drives too far off the highway. Enjoyed mainly by road users in America at the moment, the app which launched a couple of months ago, is arguably the only all-in-one app for highway travellers, because it goes beyond what existing map apps provide. In addition to turn-by-turn directions, Nexit also helps drivers customise the perfect road trip by finding exactly what they want, when they need it, and, on the road they are travelling on. Unlike other competing maps, Nexit allows users to search for any combination of travel destinations and amenities – including popular restaurants, hotels, shopping, attractions and the cheapest gas along their route. Users can also search by multiple preferences, such as a hotel with a pool or a restaurant with dine-in options, to find the next thruway exit that best fits your needs. Nexit’s industry-leading search functions are available to plan a road user’s ideal stops before he or she sets out for the trip or to find the exit that fits all of the user’s needs in real-time. Chairman of the company, Dr. Vincent Ebuh, said coming up with such innovation gives him a different fulfillment from all his exploits in the oil and gas sector where he has pioneered growth in the upstream sector as an explorationist. An excited Ebuh said at the launch: “We’re thrilled to bring this game-changing app to market just as millions of Americans are preparing to hit the roads for holiday travel. “We know that there will be significant demand from users who are often frustrated by the limits of other mapping apps. We’re proud to make road trips easier and more enjoyable with Nexit. “The app covers the entire continental United States and its premium features are free for all users. Nexit is a global app currently available in the App Store for Apple iOS operating systems and will be coming soon to Android.” Corroborating him, Nexit President and CEO, Randy Carpenter, said: “All existing navigation apps tell you where to drive, only Nexit tells you where to stop. “We’ve all been there, you’re on a road trip and settle for food you don’t want, only to find out your favorite chain was two exits away or you’ve filled up on gas only to find it cheaper at the next station. Nexit is the highway co-pilot you’ve always wanted.” The app has enjoyed rave reviews as prominent app reviewers described it as the smartest map a road user will ever use and solves many common frustrations of existing navigation apps. A reviewer said: “If you search in Google or Apple Maps for McDonald’s, you will see every McDonald’s location near you, even if it’s 20 minutes in the opposite direction. But, Nexit only shows you options that are on your way.” Users can search for hotel brands, to find trusted, national hotels to meet any budget * Hotel amenities: to look for locations that have a gym; that are pet friendly, have free breakfast, Wi-Fi, RV parking, swimming pool and more * Gas stations: to find convenience stores, air for tyres, mechanic on duty, restrooms and more * Gas prices: to locate the cheapest gas within the next 50 miles along your route, updated in real-time * Restaurants: to search for a favorite chain, type of food, dietary restrictions or options that have dine-in, drive-thru, take-out, open 24 hours, full bar, kids play area and more * Rest areas: to find locations that have an attendant on duty, dog walk area, picnic tables, baby changing stations and more * Attractions: to find amusement parks, bowling alleys and more along the route. Nexit users can search by business name or type of stop and even filter by price, distance and more. Meanwhile, the app still undergoes massive transformation on a daily basis. Barely six months after launch, the app has come up with an additional feature called the City Mode. City Mode has made Nexit the app which reinvented the highways, now reinventing the city. It serves the user a purpose when walking around the city, driving across the state or planning a trip across the country. City Mode helps find and navigate to businesses in user’s area; Advanced TravMatch is a feature that helps a user see at a glance which businesses feature all the amenities he or she is looking for, while Hotel Prices and Amenities helps the app show you hotel prices, as well as an expanded list of hotel amenities to make trip planning easier. Also, Dynamic Quick Amenities searches suggestions that will be relevant to the area of the user, just as Walking around the city feature shows multiple search results simultaneously by brand and by amenity. Vanguard By Prince Osuagwu, Hi-Tech Editor In the history of mankind, there has never been an easier way to innovate than through technology. Almost all the world’s problems today have solutions provided by technology. NEXIT, which tells you what lies ahead, is one of such technological innovations. However, the mobile genre… June 9, 2020 In "News" The introduction of latest version of Palmchat 5.1.4 social app by Tecno Mobile is expected to boost relationships, especially this Valentine season. The messaging app tailored for Africa which is taking mobile networking and experience to the next level, according to Mounir Boukai, the Director, Business Development, Afmobi will change… February 10, 2016 In "News" By Prince Osuagwu Necessity is the mother of invention. That could be a better way to describe new mobile developments in Nigeria today. Almost in quick successions, we have, for the past one year constantly featured Nigerians who invented innovative mobile applications, gadgets and devices out of the frustrations they… September 13, 2013 In "GlamTeK"