The number one bestselling author and former aide to Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omokri, has said that he has uncovered plots by the Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) party to rig the forthcoming governorship election in Edo state. He said the plots involve postponing the election by two weeks to allow the APC candidate, Ize Iyamu ample time to strategise and win the poll. Pastor Omokri gave the statement in a video via his social media page. According to him, a source from the presidential villa revealed to him that the APC government plans on increasing, by five years, the tenure of the current chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) whose original tenure is to end this year. He said the idea is for the plot to become successful in ensuring that Edo state is delivered to the APC. According to him, “I got a call from my source at the presidential villa that there is a plan by the APC administration to circumvent the will of the electorate in Edo state.” He said he also found out that the INEC chairman was told to ensure that he delivers Edo state to the APC. Pastor Omokri who called on the Edo state people and all citizens to rally round and ensure that “there is democracy in Edo State,” also revealed that the APC planned on using the security agencies to rig the Edo election. According to him, “I foresee from the conversation that one of the tricks the APC are going to use is to attempt to postpone the Edo state election by two weeks to give the APC candidate, Dr. Ize Iyamu some more time to strategise and prepare and they are going to use the security forces.” “You know I was the presidential spokesman for four years and before that, I was also an aide on the Obasanjo’s administration, the vice president’s side for two years so, I have sources in the presidential villa. “Go and watch my interview on Sunday with Channels television where I foretold what is currently happening with the EFCC chairman. I said that the man is allegedly corrupt and I said that Ibrahim Malami had written a memo and that this man has issues and then ten hours after that interview, Ibrahim Magu was arrested. “I was one of the first people to reveal that he was arrested. The DSS and other agencies denied that he was arrested. But I said it was a lie. And now, the man has been suspended. “So, I know what I am talking about. I am giving you information. It doesn’t matter if it is APC or PDP, I just want democracy to win. “Like they did remote control in Osun, now they want to do remote control in Edo.” VANGUARD He indulges in self-adulation as a bestselling author of “Facts Versus Fiction: The True Story of the Jonathan Years”. Reno Omokri, the self-acclaimed “tormentor of the All Progressives Congress, APC”, in his write-up titled: “Facts That Prove Oshiomhole’s Delusional” published in a national newspaper of September 16, 2018, turned a… September 23, 2018 In "Viewpoint" Number one bestselling author and former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omokri, has taken a swipe at Femi Adesina, President Muhammadu Buhari’s aide, over claim that  a popular cleric gave false prophesy about political issues in the country. January 28, 2020 In "News" The All Progressives Congress APC has denied making entreaties to a former spokesperson of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Reno Omokri, saying the action was the handiwork of an individual, Philip Obin who owns a twitter handle, @APCNigeria. April 6, 2018 In "News"