THE Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), has signed a Memorandum of Understating (MoU) with Cavidel Limited, an information technology firm, to automate its business processes in line with the global best practices. Speaking at the ceremony, President and Chairman of Governing Council of the CIS, Mr Olatunde Amolegbe, said the MoU had become a necessary step towards efficiency and effectiveness of the Organization. He stated: “We at the Institute hope that Cavidel shall deploy its wealth of experience to do a thorough job that would align the Institute’s work with the global best practices.    The MoU would enable Cavidel to showcase its competence in automation, add value and create a positive impact on the Institute’s business. “The Institute would also be delighted to see additional contribution made by Cavidel, especially, those that are not stated in the MOU. There will be a Committee of the Council to supervise Cavidel’s activities and report back regularly.”  Responding, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Cavidel, Mr. Dipo Odeyemi, said it will create more opportunities for the Institute to promote its services and have competitive advantage in Nigerian economy. In pursuit of the strategic drive to attract youths into its membership structure, the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) has sealed a pact with a frontline capital market operator, Perfection Nominees Limited to deploy its technical and professional strength to mobilize over 150,000 potential applicants for the institute’s Professional Diploma… April 6, 2015 In "Business" The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding, MoU, with Laurel Ventures in order to enlarge the scope for its membership drive. November 28, 2014 In "Business" The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) in collaboration with Anabel Leadership Academy has commenced a new initiative to support the federal government’s drive for youth empowerment in Nigeria. Under the new initiative, plan is underway to put in place an arrangement whereby the beneficiaries of the institute’s Professional Diploma in… March 9, 2015 In "Finance"