The Ekiti Government says it will begin to arrest those refusing to wear facemasks in public places from Monday. The Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Wale Fapounda, on Sunday told newsmen in Ado Ekiti that there would henceforth be stiffer penalties for those who fail to comply. The commissioner said Gov. Kayode Fayemi was particularly worried about the deliberate lack of compliance with most COVID-19 regulations in the state. He said the governor had ordered full enforcement of all other COVID-19 regulations in the state. The commissioner cited some of the precautionary regulations ignored by residents to include compulsory wearing of face masks in public places and observance of social distancing. He explained further that mobile courts had been established to try offenders and impose adequate sanctions such as fines and community service. The commissioner further explained that commercial motorcyclists, as well as road transport workers whose passengers refused or neglect to wear face masks, would be held liable. He reiterated the commitment of the Fayemi administration to the protection of human rights while enforcing the regulations. According to him, the Ministry of Justice has already issued a directive ordering security agents to respect the rights of residents while discharging their duties. Vanguard News By Rotimi Ojomoyela Ado Ekiti — The Ekiti State government on Tuesday expressed worry over the lackadaisical attitudes being exhibited towards the preventive guidelines to contain the spread of Covid-19, threatening a return of total lockdown in the state. The State government said it may have to return to lockdown… June 9, 2020 In "News" ….promises to make facemasks made of local fabrics available Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has extended the movement restriction and curfew imposed in the state by two weeks, following the expiration of the initial order on Monday night. The restriction will now end on April 27th. The new directive… April 13, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Ekiti Government on Wednesday said it would prosecute a positive case of COVID-19 who defied the interstate travel ban to enter the state from Katsina State. The woman, who came from Katsina to visit her husband working in the state, was discovered to have contracted COVID-19. The discovery was… May 7, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"