The US Commerce Department on Monday announced it has blacklisted 11 Chinese businesses for involvement in human rights violations against the Uighur minority, cutting off the firms’ access to American goods. Washington, together with other western nations and rights groups, has accused Beijing of interning at least a million Muslims from the Uighur ethnic group in the western Xinjiang region. In a statement, the Commerce Department said the 11 sanctioned companies are “implicated in human rights violations and abuses in the implementation of the People’s Republic of China’s campaign of repression, mass arbitrary detention, forced labor, involuntary collection of biometric data, and genetic analyses.” Commerce sanctioned nine companies — Changji Esquel Textile, Hefei Bitland Information Technology, Hefei Meiling, Hetian Haolin Hair Accessories, Hetian Taida Apparel, KTK Group, Nanjing Synergy Textiles, Nanchang O-Film Tech and Tanyuan Technology — for involvement in forced labor. Xinjiang Silk Road and Beijing Liuhe were both sanctioned for “conducting genetic analyses used to further the repression” of Uighurs, Commerce said. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo earlier this month called China’s treatment of Uighurs “the stain of the century.” But Beijing denies an wrongdoing, saying Uighurs are attending vocational training centres. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The United States Department of Commerce said Friday it would sanction a Chinese government institute and eight companies for human rights abuses against Uighurs and other minorities in China's western Xinjiang region. "These nine parties are complicit in human rights violations and abuses committed in China's campaign of repression, mass… May 23, 2020 In "Foreign" Uighurs The U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan legislation seeking to hold China accountable over alleged violations of human rights against Muslim minorities, including the Uighurs. The bill already passed in the Senate in September with support from both major parties, sailing through unanimously. After a process of… December 5, 2019 In "News" The United States has imposed visa restrictions on Chinese government and Communist Party officials it believes responsible for the detention or abuse of Muslim minorities in Xinjiang province, the U.S. State Department said on Tuesday. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo cited the decision of the Commerce Department on Monday to… October 9, 2019 In "Foreign"