PORT HARCOURT – THREE corpses of kidnap victims have again been exhumed in Rivers State, this time, from a forest in Bera, Gokana Local Government Area, where suspected killers led the police. The kidnap victims, Baridomale Sunday Tor, Baridon Gbarabera and Barisiton Nawee, were said to have been buried alive with mouths and hands tied to their back by their abductors on March 14. The suspected killers claimed they subjected the victims to the gruesome murder for reporting oil theft and perpetrators in the community. The development comes barely two days after the decomposing body of Dinebari Ereba Gospel, a potable water producing engineer, was recovered in a forest in Alesa, Eleme LGA where kidnappers tied him to a tree to die, even after collecting N1,000,000 ransom from relatives. The two suspected killers of the latest victims, Prophet and Barididum Dabama a.k.a ‘Kill and Bury’, admitted to committing the crime at the scene of exhumation of the decomposing bodies. Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Nnamdi Omoni, said the anti-cultism unit of the State Command, through intelligence gathering, arrested the suspects who led the unit to the forest. Omoni said the Command under Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan, is determined more than ever to end all crimes in Rivers. Vanguard News Nigeria We killed them for exposing oil theft, perpetrators ― Suspected killers By Egufe Yafugborhi THREE corpses of kidnapped victims have again been exhumed in Rivers State, this time, from a forest in Bera, Gokana Local Government Area (LGA) where suspected killers led the police. The victims, Baridomale Sunday Tor, Baridon… July 18, 2020 In "Metro" The police have discovered a shallow grave where the remains of the former Chief Security Officer for Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State, Mr Ejiofor Enechi, were buried after being killed by his kidnappers. March 25, 2017 In "Crime Guard" Operatives of the Inspector General of Police Monitoring Unit in Rivers State, led by ACP. Bennett Igweh, have killed three suspected kidnappers allegedly terrorising parts of the state. March 24, 2019 In "News"