The management of  College of Education, Billiri,  in Gombe state, said the porous nature of the area had forced it to engage the services  of 15 vigilante men to watch over the institution. Provost of the College, Dr Langa Hassan, who stated this while addressing newsmen in Billiri  on Thursday, said the institution was facing security challenges, especially at night. According to him, the College is yet to be connected to the national grid, as such the management has provided solar-powered electricity to illuminate the school environment. The provost identified lack of hostel accommodation as another major challenge discouraging enrolment into the school. He called on well-meaning individuals in the state to complete the project for the institution. He, however, said the state government maintained rented accommodation for female students in the town, free of charge, just as the college provided  24-room apartment for male students using its internally-generated revenue. Speaking on funding, the provost said the institution accessed N647.3 million intervention fund from the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) in 2019. He said that out of the amount, N186.3 million was slated for intervention and the construction of academic staff offices. Hassan explained that the college also bought 90 desktops computers, 15 photocopiers, 20 printers, as well as provided solar street lights. The provost listed other projects to include construction of a twin lecture theatre, purchase of library books and the construction of micro-teaching laboratories, among others. Hassan also said that the institution constructed a central store and renovated the College Guest House using internally-generated revenue. He said the school had not received any intervention from TETFund this year as a result of the outbreak of the COVID-19 .  Dr Langa Bagunji, Provost, College of Education Billiri in Gombe State, said the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TetFund ) has approved N621.9 million for infrastructure development in the college. July 29, 2019 In "Education" Dr Esrom Jokthan, Provost, College of Education Billiri, Gombe State, said on Saturday that the remedy to examination misconduct is for government to fully implement the laws against exam malpractice in the country. March 25, 2017 In "News" No fewer than 120 persons were weekend killed in several villages in Barkin Ladi, Mangu and Riyom local government areas of Plateau State in fresh attacks by gunmen suspected to be herdsmen, while over 200 others sustained gunshot injuries. June 25, 2018 In "Headlines"