Brazil’s President, Jair Bolsonaro, who has tested positive for COVID-19, said on Facebook Thursday that he was “very well” and again advocated the use of the controversial drug hydroxychloroquine. Bolsonaro, 65, appeared in his weekly Facebook Live post at his official residence. He appeared to be in good shape and was not accompanied, as is often the case, by ministers or senior officials, and the usual sign language interpreter was not present. Since the beginning of the crisis, the far-right president has dismissed the seriousness of the epidemic and criticized containment measures ordered by governors in Brazilian states. Bolsonaro said that after feeling unwell at the end of last week, he had started taking one hydroxychloroquine tablet every day. The drug, originally tested to fight malaria, has been pushed as a treatment for COVID-19 in many countries — but its effectiveness has not been formally proven and the issue is deeply dividing the global scientific community. “I’m saying this very clearly,” Bolsonaro said in his video. “I took (hydroxychloroquine) and it worked, and I’m fine, thank God. And let those who criticize it at least offer an alternative.” He did, however, deny making “propaganda for hydroxychloroquine”. Brazil is currently the second country hardest-hit country in the world by the pandemic, behind the United States. The death toll on Thursday was 69,184, with an increase of 1,224 in the previous 24 hours. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. President Jair Bolsonaro threatened Friday to withdraw Brazil from the World Health Organization, following in the footsteps of his US counterpart, Donald Trump, accusing it of "ideological bias." "I'm telling you right now, the United States left the WHO, and we're studying that, in the future. Either the WHO works… June 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The French government said Wednesday that doctors should no longer prescribe hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 patients, an unproven and potentially harmful treatment for the disease nonetheless promoted by US President Donald Trump. The move came after two French advisory bodies and the World Health Organization (WHO) warned this week that the… May 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro on Friday announced that he has tested negative for the coronavirus, contradicting earlier reports — including from his son — that he’d tested positive. Posts on his official Facebook and Twitter accounts said that “The Armed Forces Hospital and (diagnostic laboratory) Sabin have returned a negative… March 13, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"