The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has committed N100 million to support the fight against the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in Nigeria. The NSE said in a statement that N60 million would be donated to the Capital Market Support Committee for COVID-19 (CMSCC), while the balance of N40 million would be devoted to the  “Masks For All Nigerians”  campaign. The CMSCC is a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) led committee, comprised of the capital market community and set up to galvanize the capital market ecosystem to play an active role in curbing the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria. In addition to its efforts as part of CMSCC, the  “Masks For All Nigerians”  campaign will see the NSE donate over 100,000 reusable face masks to states most affected by COVID-19. In addition, the Exchange will run  an  enlightenment program on the safe use of masks on traditional and social media.
The initiative, according to the Exchange, comes on the back of a growing call for the use of masks as an effective measure in slowing the spread of COVID-19. Speaking on the initiative, Mr. Oscar N. Onyema, Chief Executive Officer, NSE, said, “At the Exchange, we recognize the health and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on Nigerians and the need to adopt more proactive steps in stemming the tide. In line with our tradition of supporting the communities where we operate, we have launched the  Masks For All Nigerians  campaign to ensure that protective masks get into the hands of citizens in the more vulnerable places. On his part, the President of the National Council, NSE, Otunba Abimbola Ogunbanjo, said, “We are facing an unprecedented existential threat that requires us to adopt a more collaborative approach in fighting this pandemic especially where social interaction is inevitable. As we work to encourage the use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) through adequate production and distribution of reusable face masks, we call on the capital market ecosystem to support this initiative by wearing a mask when in public settings and donating masks especially to those at the bottom of the pyramid so as to protect lives leading to the reactivation of our economy.” By Nkiruka Nnorom The capital market community led by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has launched a funding initiative with the aim of raising N1 billion to support the fight against Coronavirus (COVID-19) on the Nigerian economy. The fundraise, according to the Commission, would be coordinated by the Capital… April 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" IN line with its arrangements to maintain operations in the face of the Coronavirus, COVID-19, restrictions the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, has successfully listed Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc and Primero BRT Securitization SPV Plc bonds worth N36.5 billion on the Exchange. April 13, 2020 In "Business" The Chief Executive Officer of The Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, Mr. Oscar  Onyema, has  expressed the Exchange’s commitment to providing corporates and investors access to the market in meeting their financial and investment needs during this period and beyond. April 17, 2020 In "News"