Ekiti State Government, on Saturday, officially confirmed the record of three new Coronavirus (COVID-19) cases in the state, as announced Friday night by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The government said the three new COVID-19 cases were among those infected with the virus by the now late 29-year old pregnant woman. The pregnant woman was earlier reported to have sneaked into the state from Lagos, but later died of the complications arising from the virus after she was delivered of her baby. The State Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Dr Mojisola Yahaya-Kolade, disclosed this in a statement in Ado Ekiti. “We can confirm that three of the samples sent to the NCDC accredited laboratory for testing returned positive results of the COVID-19 virus infection. “The samples were from three of the primary contacts of our third case – the late 29-year-old mother who died of complications from childbirth on April 22, 2020,” she said. According to her, the new positive cases are all females, with ages ranging from 26-50 years and who had been in self isolation for 14 days now. “This brings the total confirmed cases in Ekiti State to 11 out of which eight are active, two discharged, with one death recorded, ” she said. It would be recalled that the government had, in the previous weeks, announced that the late 29-year-old woman came in contact with over 70 persons during the course of her visits to about three hospitals before the delivery of her baby through Casarean. She later died at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido Ekiti and was subsequently buried under strict supervision of state government officials. Among COVID-19 victims traced to her case is a 45-year-old medical doctor from a private hospital in the state. Vanguard News Nigeria ADO-EKITI—THE Ekiti State government, yesterday, confirmed the death of an American, who died of the Corona virus. It also disclosed the  positive case of the virus in a patient in the State. March 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, has confirmed that a 38-year-old male has tested positive for coronavirus in the state. The Ekiti State Taskforce on Covid-19, headed by His Excellency Dr John Kayode Fayemi, can confirm that we have recorded an incidence of a Nigerian male, 38 years old, of Ekiti… March 18, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), says its primary strategy is to work with affected states in the identification of cases of Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic outbreak in the country. Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, Director General, NCDC, said this at the Presidential Taskforce (PTF) briefing on COVID-19 in the country,… April 2, 2020 In "News"