The sterling qualities of Nigerian graduates and professionals serving under the Technical Aids Corps programme has once again been brought to the fore with the appointment of a Nigerian, Dr. Laoluwa Adejayan, as the head of the Covid-19 Task Force in Sierra Leone. Announcing Adejayan’s appointment, the Sierra Leonean authorities said he had been adjudged as the best foreign medical practitioner in the country in recent years. Following the appointment, the Serial Leonean government increased his salary to $20,000 per month, a 100 per cent increase. Adejayan, a graduate of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, had reportedly served in Bayelsa State after his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) before   transferring his services to the West African country under the Technical Aids Corps scheme in 2012. The scheme is currently headed by a seasoned administrator from Ile-Oluji, Ondo State, Dr. Pius Osunyikanmi In a letter addressed to President Muhammadu Bihari intimating him  with  the development, Sierra Leone’s President Julius Maada Bio described Adeyanjua as a good ambassador of Nigeria in the country. According to Bio, Adeyanju had, over the years, proved to be a well-trained, brilliant and hard working doctor. Vanguard Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) last week honour President of Sierra Leone, Ernest Bai Koroma and the immediate past president of the institute, Mr Adeyemo Adejumo with award of fellows of the institute. June 23, 2009 In "Business" AIR VICE MARSHALL LUCKY ARARILE (rtd) is the Owie of Abraka Kingdom in Ethiope East Local Government Area of Delta State. In this interview, the former Nigeria Air Force (NAF) pilot speaks on his life as a traditional ruler, his involvement in internal and external operations including ECOWAS Monitoring Group… July 28, 2013 In "Interview" Those who think that the South must continue to play second fiddle in the scheme of things must be told the truth: There is every reason to give honour to those below the divide. June 3, 2017 In "Emissary"