The Chairman, Cross River State Anti-Tax Agency, CRSATA, Bishop (Dr) Emma Isong has vowed to prosecute those flouting the directives of the governor and the Tax Exemption Law will face the full wrath of the law. Dr Isong gave the warning on Sunday in Calabar in a release he personally signed following reports of some consultants and proscribed Unions including Local government revenue staff who were still extorting innocent citizens. He said it was really disturbing and a big shame for anyone in whatever guise to go about extorting money from innocent citizens adding that it was criminal and highly unacceptable while assuring the public that perpetrators will be seriously dealt with. His words: “It has come to the notice of the Anti-Tax Agency that in spite of His Excellency, Senator (Prof.) Ben Ayade’s directives to end illegal taxation in Cross River State, some proscribed Agencies, Unions, LGA revenue Staff, individuals and tax consultants have taken it upon themselves to continually extort from innocent citizens. “This not acceptable even after the Governor had issued several warnings to the perpetrators to desist from such inhuman act of extorting their hard-earned money. Besides, such an act is against the Cross River State Tax Exemption Laws. “The Agency, however, frowns at such flagrant abuse of laws and directive, warning that those still engaged in illegal collections of taxes, dues, levies, tolls and revenues from Keke-Napep, taxi drivers, hawkers, market women, shop owners and Small Scale Businesses shall be prosecuted by the law if caught. “Henceforth, anybody caught in this illegal business shall be handed over to law enforcement officers for immediate prosecution,” he stated. Vanguard Cross River Governor, Prof Ben Ayade on Sunday suspended the activities of Commercial Transport Regulatory Agency, CITRA, for selling tickets to the bus, taxi , tricycle operators in the state. May 24, 2020 In "News" Bothered by incessant cases of suspected criminal elements extorting money from unsuspecting tax payers in Benue State, Executive Chairman of Benue Internal Revenue Service, BIRS, Mr. Terzungwe Atser, has appealed to security agencies in the state to arrest and prosecute anyone fingered in tax fraud. April 9, 2019 In "News" The General Overseer of Christian Central Chapel International, CCCI, Bishop Dr. Gospel Emmah Isong, has predicted that Nigeria will witness a fresh pressing for the reintroduction of sharia law and Islamic control in some states of Nigeria. January 1, 2019 In "News"