With rising costs and operational challenges due to the Covid-19 pandemic, this relief aims to support the scheme’s healthcare providers across the country. As Nigeria continues its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, Total Health Trust Limited (THT), a member of the Liberty Group, is playing a leading role in the response through its strategic collaboration with healthcare providers and their delivery of quality health care services in the country. THT has created a COVID-19 relief initiative for its network of healthcare providers to help ensure that Nigerians continue to have access to the healthcare they need during this challenging time. Through this initiative, THT is supporting healthcare providers to mitigate the impact of the epidemic by covering the cost of protective disposable equipment, such as masks and gloves, for consultations, as well as technical support for exposure to COVID-19 related cases. In a statement recently released by THT, Nigeria’s leading Health Maintenance Organisation, the CEO Kieran Godden applauded the intensive efforts of healthcare professionals in curtailing the spread of the virus. “We at Total Health Trust, and indeed the whole country, remain very thankful to our health professionals, the NCDC and the State Ministries of Health for the immense and co-ordinated role they continue to play in ensuring that the country records ongoing success in the fight against this pandemic” he said. “At Total Health Trust, we are concerned about the well-being of healthcare providers and the risks they face to ensure a healthier Nigeria. We understand their concerns in managing their own exposure to suspected Covid-19 cases, while providing medical care to citizens. As such, we are focusing our efforts on providing the necessary protection in the fight against COVID-19.” “Furthermore, our commitment to delivering the highest level of support to our network of healthcare providers continues, especially at a time when their operations and needs are quickly changing.” said Godden . “As a responsible corporate organisation, with a purpose to make Nigeria healthier, we are contributing to the fight against the virus by empowering our healthcare centres across Nigeria to continue delivering essential health and wellbeing services. We urge other corporate organisations and sector leaders to play their part as we overcome this disease together as a nation” he added. About Total Health Trust Limited Total Health Trust (THT), a member of the Liberty Group, is a proudly Nigerian company with a pan-African foot print working to make Nigeria healthier. We are the leading Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) dedicated to serving SMEs, corporates and multinationals in Nigeria. With a demonstrated track record of providing affordable and reliable healthcare services and solutions of more than 18 years , we understand healthcare and know the needs of those we serve. Our pan-African footprint enables us to leverage world class solutions together with local expertise as well as a network of over 7 000 healthcare providers to deliver better health care results. The organisation has offices in all geopolitical zones of the country and is headquartered in Lagos. www.totalhealthtrust.com For Enquiries, Kindly contact Marketing & Corporate Communications Tel: 0808 359 1528 Leading Health Maintenance Organisation (HMO), Total Health Trust, who turns 21 years this year, hosted a cross section of its clients at a cocktail event in Lagos on to appreciate their support. The company reaffirmed its commitment to continuously add value to health insurance in Nigeria. March 10, 2019 In "News" Lumos Nigeria, Africa's leading solar home system provider, has joined forces with the Young Professionals Organisation, (YPO), Lagos Chapter and the Lagos State Government, by donating Solar Powered Systems (SPS), to power critical units at the 70-bed Eti-Osa COVID-19 Isolation & Treatment Center. April 28, 2020 In "News" In keeping with its brand promise to be Here for good, particularly in times of adversity, Standard Chartered (the Group) announced today that it is launching a $50 million global fund providing assistance to those affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. April 2, 2020 In "News"