Former Chelsea boss Carlo Ancelotti believes John Terry will impress as a manager in the same way Frank Lampard has done at Stamford Bridge. Lampard, who like Terry played under Ancelotti when he was in charge of the Blues between 2009 and 2011, has won praise for his stewardship of a young Chelsea squad this season. Fellow club legend Terry, presently assistant manager Aston Villa, has also been backed to deliver in a top job by the Italian. Asked about the success of Lampard, Ancelotti told Sky Sports: “I’m not surprised because as a player, Frank had fantastic tactical qualities. “Of course, Frank is doing really well at Chelsea. I’m waiting now for Terry as a manager. “Now he is an assistant, but I think they both have the qualities to be a good manager.” Ancelotti feels it is easy to forget the quality of the team he had at Chelsea, with his side earning the club’s maiden Premier League and FA Cup double in his first year at the helm. “The second year was more difficult, but the first year was really fantastic,” said Ancelotti, now in charge of Everton. “The club had the goal for the Champions League, but the fact that in the first year we won the Premier League and the FA Cup was really important and really exciting. “The second year we had some problems. We had [Didier] Drogba with malaria and these kinds of problems. We started really well and we finished really well but the middle of the season was not so good. “Drogba was fantastic. In the first year, he scored 36 goals but to mention Drogba means to forget [Nicolas] Anelka, for example. “[We had Florent] Malouda, Joe Cole, [Salomon] Kalou, Michael Ballack in the middle, [Michael] Essien, Deco and at the back, Alex, [Branislav] Ivanovic, Ashley Cole. “So the team really, really was a fantastic team. When I arrived, the team was there, I didn’t build the team, so I was really excited to train these kinds of players with this kind of power. “Imagine when you needed to prepare set-pieces, you had John Terry, Alex, Drogba, Ballack to jump so it was not so difficult to score on set-pieces.” Fotmob Vanguard  The former Nigeria international has revealed what he said after his former teammate was appointed the Blues boss John Obi Mikel has revealed he joked with Frank Lampard about becoming his assistant at Chelsea. The former Derby County boss was appointed the Blues manager following the departure of Italian tactician Maurizio Sarri in… October 12, 2019 In "Sports" Frank Lampard insists Billy Gilmour will keep his feet on the ground despite the teen midfielder’s star turn against Liverpool. Scotland youngster Gilmour produced a first-class performance, bossing the play as Chelsea dumped Premier League champions-elect Liverpool out of the FA Cup with a 2-0 win on Tuesday. Now the… March 8, 2020 In "Sports" Liverpool missed the chance to take Cristiano Ronaldo to Anfield during the scramble for his signature in 2003, says Phil Thompson, with Manchester United swooping in as the Reds mulled over their options. A highly-rated Portuguese forward was generating plenty of interest after bursting onto the scene at Sporting. Several… January 30, 2020 In "Sports"