Odion Ighalo has revealed that Ole Gunnar Solskjaer told him he could do even better after one of his goalscoring appearances for Manchester United. The Nigerian forward joined United on a six-month loan deal on transfer deadline day in January and his move to Old Trafford could be made permanent ahead of next season. Ighalo has scored four goals for United in his limited game time since joining the club and he revealed that Solskjaer has a serious side to him when he’s not joking around with his players. “When I moved to United, I learned a few things from him,” Ighalo told MUTV. “During games… there was even a game I scored in, and he said: ‘You should have scored more if you do this or do that’. “I thought about it and I know if I had done what Ole said, I would have scored more. He says: ‘You’re a striker, take the chance’. So I’ve learnt a lot from him, in terms of positioning and how to do one or two things in a game. “As a striker, it’s good when a striker is coaching you. And, as a striker, you benefit even more than the defenders. He is someone who has scored goals for a long time and has done a lot for United, so it’s good to learn from him. “He’s a very calm guy; he’s a good guy. Outside of football, he’s a good guy. When everybody is laughing in training, he joins in and he talks to us, but, when it’s the game, you see a serious face. We have to do this, we have to do that – then it’s business time.” Vanguard Odion Ighalo insists he is just focussed on “working hard”, and says it is up to Ole Gunnar Solskjaer to decide whether to partner him with Anthony Martial up front for Manchester United. Ighalo made his second appearance for United as a second-half substitute against Club Brugge on Thursday night,… February 21, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is happy to report that loan signing Odion Ighalo has already displayed his goalscoring abilities throughout his first training sessions as a Red. The Nigerian striker has joined the club from Shanghai Greenland Shenhua until the end of this season and made his anticipated… February 21, 2020 In "Sports" New Manchester United striker Odion Ighalo claims it's 'a dream come true' to move to Old Trafford, following his surprise transfer from Chinese Super League side Shanghai Greenland Shenhua on the last day of the transfer window. The 30-year-old's return to the Premier League was one of the most unexpected… February 2, 2020 In "Sports"