 Ex-militants of Niger Delta extraction have warned critics over the spate of attacks on former two-term governor of Borno State, Alhaji Ali Modu Sheriff, whose convoy was attacked by bandits recently while making preparations for his late father’s burial, Alhaji Modu Sheriff. The agitators  also urged security agents to investigate the attack, especially as some aides of Alhaji Modu Sheriff lost their lives in the “botched assassination attempt.” Leading the pack of the Coalition of Niger Delta ex-militants were the National President, National Coalition of Niger Delta Ex-Agitators, NCNDEA Eshanekpe Israel, and the Coordinator, Niger Delta Youth Council, NDYC, Engineer Jator Abido. The Coalition made this known in a statement jointly issued in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital yesterday noting that the flag flown by enemies of Alhaji Sheriff has been shot down by the excellent result emanating from the National Centre for Disease Control, NCDC with a negative result for the former governor and all his family members and aides as against the positive for COVID-19 result speculated by the camp of his alleged enemies. Recall that, the former governor was attacked by unknown gunmen in company with his family members and aides. Three of his security details were killed during the attack. The Coalition is of the opinion that the security agencies should go beyond the periphery of hounding those behind the dastardly and condemnable attack on the convoy of Alhaji Sheriff, the first governor to serve two consecutive terms (2003–2011) and look into developments thereafter. According to the Coalition, Sheriff has paid his dues in political arena, which Akpodoro added, has placed him in a position of envy for those who lack the integrity, wisdom, general acceptability and popularity in Borno political space . The Coalition pointed at the blackmail the followed the exit of the bereaved former governor from Abuja in the process of mourning his father the mandatory test for the coronavirus COVID-19 by all members of Sheriff’s family which turned out to be negative.  An ex-militant leader, Eshanekpe  Israel, a.k.a Akpodoro, has condoled with the family of the former Governor of Borno State,  Ali Modu Sheriff, over the death of his father who was the Galadima of Dikwa, Alhaji Modu Sheriff, who passed on in the early hours of Thursday. April 24, 2020 In "News" SOLDIERS invaded Kokodiagbene, another Ijaw community in Gbaramatu clan, Warri South-West Local Government Area, Delta State, weekend, in search of members of Niger Delta Avengers who went underground after their meeting in Bayelsa State, last week. May 17, 2016 In "News" Adding to the confusion, a faction of the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND), penultimate week, declared support for Buhari’s re-election ahead of the general elections February 17, 2019 In "News"