Six positive cases for coronavirus have been detected at three Premier League clubs after players and staff were tested ahead of a return to training, England’s top-flight said Tuesday. “The Premier League can today confirm that, on Sunday 17 May and Monday 18 May, 748 players and club staff were tested for COVID-19,” the league said in a statement.   “Of these, six have tested positive from three clubs.” No details were released over which individuals or clubs are affected. “Players or club staff who have tested positive will now self-isolate for a period of seven days,” added the league’s statement. Premier League clubs began returning to training in small groups on Tuesday after protocols on safety measures were signed off on Monday. BREAKING: The Premier League has confirmed six positive tests for coronavirus from three clubs after first phase of mass testing — Sky Sports News (@SkySportsNews) May 19, 2020 The number of positive cases represents just 0.8 percent of those tested and is consistent with similar widespread testing conducted by other major leagues hoping to complete the season. Germany’s top two divisions registered 10 positive cases out of 1,724 tests two weeks ago ahead of their return to action last weekend. Five players from Spain’s top two divisions tested positive last week before La Liga’s return to group training. Premier League clubs are aiming for a return to action by the middle of next month despite concerns from some players over their welfare. Watford captain Troy Deeney has said he will not return to training this week due to fears he could pass the virus on to his five-month-old son. VANGUARD Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta has tested positive for the coronavirus, prompting the Premier League to announce they will hold an emergency meeting on Friday to discuss future fixtures. Arsenal have closed their training ground as a result of Arteta's positive test, with Gunners players and club staff who had recent… March 12, 2020 In "Sports" As European leagues prepare to return from the enforced coronavirus break, screening tests are revealing cases in various championships, although, as yet, not calling into question plans to resume playing. Germany still plans to be the first of the five "big" leagues ahead of Spain, England and Italy - France… May 15, 2020 In "Sports" Chelsea's players and coaching staff were ordered into isolation as Callum Hudson-Odoi became the first Premier League player confirmed to have the new coronavirus late on Thursday. The news casts the viability of this weekend's games further into doubt after Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta tested positive, also throwing their team… March 13, 2020 In "Sports"