US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said shots fired Sunday from North Korea towards the South in the DMZ that divides the peninsula were believed to have been “accidental.” “Handful of shots came across from the north; we think those were accidental,” he said on ABC’s “This Week.” “South Koreans did return fire. There was no loss of life on either side,” he added. The border incident came a day after North Korean state media said Kim Jong Un had made his first public appearance after a nearly three-week unexplained absence from public view. Pompeo declined to comment on what the US knew about the North Korean leader’s absence, or whether it was linked to a rumoured health issue. “We have seen the same images from yesterday that the world saw. It looks like Chairman Kim is alive and well,” he said. “Our mission remains the same, to convince the North Koreans to give up their nuclear weapons and create a brighter future for the North Korean people.” Meanwhile, Vanguard earlier reported that Pompeo said that there was “enormous evidence” that the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic originated in a laboratory in Wuhan, China. “There is enormous evidence that this is where it began,” he said on ABC’s “This Week.” But while highly critical of China’s handling of the matter, Pompeo declined to say whether he thought the virus had been intentionally released. President Donald Trump has been increasingly critical of China’s role in the pandemic, which has infected nearly 3.5 million people and killed more than 240,000 around the world. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. North Korean troops fired multiple gunshots towards the South in the DMZ dividing the peninsula on Sunday, prompting South Korean forces to fire back, Seoul said. The rare exchange of gunfire comes a day after North Korean state media reported that leader Kim Jong Un had made his first public… May 3, 2020 In "Foreign" North Korea released three American prisoners and handed them over to U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday, clearing a major obstacle to an unprecedented summit between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. May 9, 2018 In "News" North Korea fired two short-range ballistic missiles early on Wednesday, the South Korean military said, only days after it launched two similar missiles intended to pressure South Korea and the United States to stop upcoming military drills. July 31, 2019 In "Foreign"