MTN’s Q1 financial result has shown that over one billion free text messages were sent by customers within the first four weeks the network introduced free SMS on its platform to ease the impacts of Coronavirus, COVID-19 pandemic on its subscribers. The gesture was in response to the challenge by the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, who asked telcos to consider giving Nigerians some token airtime and data to ease their pains during the Covid-19 lockdown. In response to the call, MTN Nigeria, March, announced that its over 70 million subscribers will be able to send 300 free SMS messages per month as part of the company’s Y’ello Hope package created to assist its customers as a result of the economic implications of the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic. The free SMS package means that every subscriber would be able to send10 free SMS daily for 30 days to all networks. With the cost of an SMS pegged at N4, it means MTN has incurred an estimated 4 billion Naira on text messages in the first month alone. MTN, said the premise to offer SMS incentives was based on statistics which shows that over 30 percent of MTN customers are not data subscribers and are among the most vulnerable Nigerians being severely impacted by the virus outbreak. Other incentives available to MTN customers during the period include free 100MB daily to access verified information on health platforms such as Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), World Health Organisation (WHO) and educational materials on MTN’s Teens platform, mPulse. In addition, the company suspended transaction fees for all Cash2Cash transfers via its Mobile Money (MoMo) Agent Network. VANGUARD  Online critics posited that MTN should have offered reduced or free data tariffs when the leading mobile network operator announced earlier in March that it's over 70 million subscribers will be able to send 300 free SMS messages per month as part of the company’s Y’ello Hope package created to… May 14, 2020 In "News" It’s been a tough month for Nigerians. We are grappling with a pandemic that has caused even developed countries to stagger. Lives have been lost. Some people have requested that the year 2020 be returned to its rightful owner. Who? We don’t know. We are in very uncertain times, conspiracy… April 15, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Amidst  pressure on Nigeria to contain the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in Nigeria, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has received massive supports from the corporate Nigeria. April 2, 2020 In "News"