A human rights activist, Chief Mulade Sheriff, has called on state Governors with no real evidences of Covid-19 cases in their states to stop churning out dubious figures from their respective Government Houses, quoting Ministry of Health and NCDC. Sheriff, National Coordinator of Centre for Peace and Environmental Justice, CEPEJ, said some of the governors had nothing of quality on ground in their respective states to attend to victims of the pandemic, but were desperate to exploit the situation to exploit the people. The peace advocate in a statement on Monday urged the anti-graft agencies, EFCC, ICPC, amongst others to rescue Nigeria from unpatriotic leaders, who want to seize the global health emergency as an opportunity to defraud the nation’s fragile economy. Expressing alarm at the rising figures of COVID-19 cases in parts of the country, he said: ” State governors, who do not have genuine or tangible pieces of evidence of COVID-19 in their states should stop reading out fake figures of coronavirus cases from their Government Houses, and quoting guidelines from the Ministry of Health and NCDC without proper arrangements to cater for their citizens.” “Some governors in the Niger Delta region have used the innocent poor and vulnerable persons to glamorize themselves in the media without actually touching the lives of the people during the critical COVID-19 lockdown period. He, however, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for standing tall against COVID 19 pandemic and urged Nigerians to give him maximum support towards overcoming the global health challenge devoid of religious, political and ethnic considerations. Chief Sheriff also called on the governors to genuinely reach out to their people with quality palliatives to cushion the effects of the hardships at this critical time. VANGUARD Sen. Ali Modu Sheriff on Sunday, described as malicious, reports that he was running away from being tested for Covid-19 after allegedly coming in contact with two cases who have died of the disease. May 3, 2020 In "News" The National Union of Textile Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN) has called on the Federal and State governments to look inwards in the procurement of protective devices and other materials which Nigeria has the capacity to produce locally. April 21, 2020 In "News" By Victor Young National Union of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria, NUTGTWN, has called on the Federal Government to make wearing of facemasks compulsory, as part of the measures to contain COVID-19 pandemic. President of the union, John Adaji, in a statement, commended plans by Lagos State government… April 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"