The National Agency  for Food and Drug Administration and Control, NAFDAC, has reacted to claims of the herbal COVID-19 remedies, saying they were either domiciled in the conventional news media or social media. Director-General of the agency, Mojisola Adeyeye, said in a statement yesterday that it  received an application only from one company for a product  which it presented for approval for the treatment of symptoms of COVID-19, and not cure of the disease. The statement read: “The rush to mitigate the mortality and morbidity resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in acceleration of product development, repurposing of formulations, off label use of therapeutics and the search for a vaccine to prevent COVID-19. “Because no vaccine yet exists to prevent further spread of the virus, the huge burden of developing a cure or at best, a treatment for this deadly virus rests squarely on the shoulders of the medical world, of which Nigeria is no exception. “In a bid to discover a cure, therefore, the public has witnessed quite a number of claims from different quotas – Complementary and Alternative Medicines Practitioners, Traditional healers, and the Academia. “It is pertinent to note, however, that these claims are domiciled in either the conventional news media or the social media. “The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, NAFDAC, as at the time of this press release has only received application from one company for a product the company is presenting (for approval) to the agency for the treatment of the symptoms of COVID-19, and not for the cure of COVID-19 as a disease. “A claim of a cure must be subjected to clinical evaluation through well controlled, randomized clinical trials following an approved clinical trial protocol. “That Africa as a continent is blessed with diverse plants and herbs that constitute a source of food and medicine is incontrovertible. “The drugs of today’s modern society are products of research and development by major pharmaceutical companies. “Among the most important raw materials researched and developed are naturally occurring materials obtained especially from plants. “It should be mentioned also, however, that many plants are similarly very poisonous. As the Agency that has been saddled with the mandate of safeguarding the health of the citizenry, NAFDAC will continue to make sure that only medicinal product (including herbal remedies) that have proven safety data will be approved for use by the public. “At present, the agency lists herbal medicines based on historical perspective on the use of the products after carrying out toxicological and microbiological evaluations in the laboratories to ensure that they are, at the minimum, safe. “The listing status is valid for two years and is renewable. It does not validate the efficacy claims being made for the products hence, the labels must bear a disclaimer informing the consumer The claims have not been evaluated by NAFDAC. “This minimum requirement of ‘proof of safety’ is the Agency’s way of encouraging production of herbal remedies from the country’s rich diversity of plants.” “Part of the efforts to advance herbal products development informed the setting up of the Nigerian Herbal Medicine Product Committee by the Director General, NAFDAC. “The platform brings together Manufacturers, Academia, Researchers and relevant stakeholders by bridging the gap often created between traditional medicine practitioners (possible patent holders) and drug manufacturers, whose responsibility it would be to formulate the products. “This collaboration, brokered by the Agency, aims at translating research of herbs into products of commerce with proven safety & efficacy. “The committee has met three times since inception, on March 15, 2019, September 6, 2019 and the most recent one being a virtual meeting on Thursday May 8, 2020. “Call for expression of interest for the COVID-19 related medicines was made; several researchers and practitioners have responded and are being guided to submit such medicines to NAFDAC for expedited review. Vanguard ABUJA- THE National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, NAFDAC,has asked those claiming to have found drugs for the treatment of coronavirus to come forward with them so they can be subjected to internationally recognized process of approval through pre-clinical and where applicable, clinical trials. May 13, 2020 In "News" AGAINST the backdrop of claims that cure for coronavirus has been discovered in the country, the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, NAFDAC, said it was yet to give permission for use of any vaccine to treat the disease. May 2, 2020 In "News" The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) says it has not approved any drug or vaccine for the treatment of COVID-19. The Director-General of the agency, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, said in a statement on Saturday that NAFDAC had not granted approval for any vaccine for the… May 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"