A governorship aspirant under the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State, Hon. Bode Ayorinde yesterday assured workers in the state that if voted in as governor he would prioritise their welfare. In his message to workers in the state to mark this years workers day, Ayorinde said that only a well-motivated workforce can assist his administration to achieve his Industrialisation agenda for the Sunshine state. Ayorinde who spoke through his Senior Media Aide, Olusegun Adebumiti enjoined the state workers to be dedicated and resilient as he intends to run an all-inclusive government with the workforce taking the front burner. According to him “better days lie ahead if he emerged the PDP guber candidate and eventually become the state governor. Speaking on his governorship ambition, Ayorinde assured the people of the state that industrialisation would be prioritised. He promised to “establish six industrial estates in the State, two in each Senatorial District in order to create jobs and wealth for the good people of Ondo State. Ayorinde added that he would revisit the Ifon Ceramic Industry, Oluwa Glass, Ayesan Oil Palm, Ondo state Printing Press among other moribund industries across the State. Vanguard The Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo SAN GCON Leaders in Parliament, Ministers and Governors Top Functionaries in Finance and Related Sectors, Banking Professionals and Stakeholders in the Nation’s economy will on Monday, March 12, 2018, converge at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, to unveil… March 10, 2018 In "News" THE wave  of defection in the All Progressives Congress, APC, has hit the party in Ondo State as no fewer than three chieftains of the party are set to dump the APC for Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. August 3, 2018 In "News" IBADAN—ALL  Progressives Congress, APC, governorship candidate in Oyo State, Chief Adebayo Adelabu, yesterday, promised to implement the N30,000 minimum wage for the state’s civil servants if he becomes the governor. March 6, 2019 In "News"