Ekiti State Government, on Thursday, formally expanded its isolation centre to 150 bed space, following the delivery of 100 hospital beds and other medical equipment from the Nigeria Private Sector Coalition Against Covid-19 (CACOVID) in support of the fight against Coronavirus in the State. The expansion, according to Governor Kayode Fayemi, has positioned the state to tackle possible rise in cases. The Governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Dr (Mrs) Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, at the event that took place at the Oba Adejugbe General Hospital, Ado-Ekiti, said the facility would boost the state’s capacity for curtailing the spread of the pandemic. Other items donated include 12 LG electron, Auto Clave, Blood Warmer, Deflagrator, kidney dish, monitor, oxygen cylinder, oxygen concentrator, oxygen regulators. The Ekiti State Governor who assured that the facilities in the isolation centre would be judiciously utilized, solicited for more supports from “corporate organisations and good spirited individuals in the fight against the dreadful virus”. He disclosed that a total 16 Covid-19 patients out of the 20 recorded cases had been discharged, after they had recovered and their test turned negative twice, leaving the State with only two active cases while the two deaths recorded were imported cases from Lagos and Kwara States. The Governor said: “As a responsive and responsible government, we have taken precautionary measures geared toward the prevention of community spread of Coronavirus in Ekiti. “The support to our isolation and treatment centre will strengthen not only our fight against the COVID-19 but will definitely boost the healthcare services in our dear State. “Our health facility is better prepared, even beyond this perilous time of Covid-19. On behalf of the good people of Ekiti State and Government, I sincerely thank CACOVID for the gesture.” Earlier, the representative of CACOVID, Mr Kayode Adejuyigbe of Access Bank said the gesture was part of the collective responsibility in the fight against Covid-19 in the State. Adejuyigbe who noted that survival was of necessity at this period, said the equipment were donated to support the treatment of confirmed and suspected patients in Ekiti . In attendance at the brief event were the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe, Head of Service, Mrs Peju Babafemi, State Coordinator of Covid-19 Taskforce, Prof Bolaji Aluko, Special Adviser on Public Health, Dr Jimlas Ogunsakin and other top government officials. Vanguard News Nigeria. Ado-Ekiti—Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has said the state’s Covid-19 testing centre, would commence operation before the end of the week. May 11, 2020 In "News" By Rotimi Ojomoyela - Ado Ekiti As part of the efforts to win the war against Coronavirus spread in Ekiti State, Coalition of Health Professional Associations and unions have called for the immediate  establishment of more centres at the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti and the Federal Teaching… April 28, 2020 In "News" By Rotimi Ojomoyela - Ado-Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi has said that the current economic challenges occasioned by the outbreak of Coronavirus, would not affect payment of salaries, completion of legacy projects and other developmental initiatives in the State. Fayemi gave the assurance at the Civil Centre complex… March 23, 2020 In "News"