The Lagos State Ministry of Health, LSMOH, has debunked the reports in the social media that the state health commissioner has tested positive to COVID-19, describing it as ‘fake news’. In a press statement signed by the Ministry’s Director of Public Affairs, Mr Tunbosun Ogunbanwo, they urged the public to disregard the report “We hereby urge the public to disregard this absolute falsehood and fabricated report in its entirety. This is the handwork of mischief makers who are out to create unnecessary panic and fear amongst the populace. “@ProfAkinAbayomi is hale and hearty, in good health and has continued in his capacity as the Deputy Incident Commander of the #COVID19Lagos Intervention to coordinate activities and response in order to break the chain of transmission of the infection in Lagos.” The Ministry further implored citizens to rely only on the official and verified communication channels of the @followlasg and @LSMOH for #COVID19Lagos related news and information.
” Let’s take responsibility by sharing only confirmed and verified reports,” Ogunbanwo stated. @ProfAkinAbayomi is hale and hearty, in good health and has continued in his capacity as the Deputy Incident Commander of the #COVID19Lagos Intervention to coordinate activities and response in order to break the chain of transmission of the infection in Lagos. @jidesanwoolu pic.twitter.com/LOCSfZEZZV — LSMOH (@LSMOH) May 8, 2020  You will recall that 10 staff of the Lagos State Government House, Marina reportedly tested positive on Wednesday. The Commissioner for Health, Professor Abayomi, while giving the report, explained that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his, Adejoke tested negative. “I am glad to announce that COVID-19 Incident Commander, Governor of Lagos State and the First Lady of Lagos @jokesanwoolu have consistently tested negative to COVID-19 following three consecutive tests conducted on them recently. “However, 10 persons associated with Lagos State House in Marina have tested positive to COVID-19. On behalf of @followlasg, I, therefore, implore you all to continue to embrace the #MaskUpLagos initiative and observe all precautionary measures. “It is our collective responsibility to do all we can to stop the spread of COVID-19 #ForAGreaterLagos.” #COVID19Lagos Update I am glad to announce that #COVID19 Incident Commander Governor of Lagos State @jidesanwoolu and the First Lady of Lagos @jokesanwoolu have consistently tested negative to #COVID19 following three consecutive tests conducted on them recently. pic.twitter.com/WdkkyZiLKl — Prof. Akin Abayomi (@ProfAkinAbayomi) May 7, 2020  Vanguard By David Royal Prof. Akin Abayomi, the Lagos State Commissioner for Health on Wednesday said an American who tested positive for coronavirus in Lagos state has been evacuated to the United States. Akin Abayomi disclosed this while giving an update on his Twitter handle on Wednesday. READ ALSO: Davido tests… April 1, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By David Royal The Lagos State Ministry of Health says it has confirmed 3 new cases of COVID-19 in the state making it a total number of 25 confirmed cases. See the image above for breakdown. READ ALSO: Wuhan residents resume work as China eases coronavirus lockdown The ministry via… March 23, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Lagos State government has announced that 37 COVID-19 patients have been discharged from infectious disease centres in the state. The discharged cases include 19 females and 18 males including an Indian. The patients were discharged from Infectious DIsease Centre, Yaba, Onikan and Eti-Osa to reunite with their society. A… May 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"