South Sudan’s first vice president, the former rebel leader Riek Machar, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus, his office said Monday. Machar’s wife, Defence Minister Angelina Teny, and “a number of his office staff and bodyguards” have also been infected, according to a statement posted on the office’s Facebook page and attributed to press secretary James Gatdek Dak. Machar “has issued a public statement declaring that he is found positive, and from today will self-quarantine in his residence for the next 14 days,” the statement said. South Sudan, which is emerging from a devastating six-year civil war, has so far recorded 339 cases of COVID-19 and six deaths, according to the latest figures from the health ministry, also released Monday. Although the number is relatively low, only 3,908 tests have been conducted. Aid agencies have been sounding the alarm over a sharp rise in cases in recent days. Last week, officials announced the virus had reached a camp of some 30,000 displaced people who have been seeking United Nations protection in the capital Juba since 2013. Two cases have been confirmed there. A case has also been confirmed in a similar camp in northern Bentiu, home to almost 120,000 people. The country continues to be gripped by humanitarian emergency and hunger, even after Machar and President Salva Kiir — the main rivals in the civil war — formed a unity government in February. The two men remain deadlocked on key issues such as the control of regional states. Until last week, Machar had been serving on a taskforce intended to combat the coronavirus. But on Friday Kiir dissolved the taskforce, removing a number of politicians including Machar. The statement Monday from Machar’s office said “a number” of other former members of the taskforce had also tested positive. It said Machar was “healthy and with no symptoms.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. South Sudan’s President Salva Kiir on Friday appointed rebel leader Riek Machar as vice president, paving way for the formation of a unity government that seeks to end six years of war. “I President Salva Kiir Mayardit, president of South Sudan, do hereby issue a decree for the appointment of… February 22, 2020 In "Foreign" South Sudan on Monday reiterated its commitment to the ongoing peace talks in Khartoum, dispelling fresh doubts and fears by the U.S. that President Salva Kiir and rebel leader Riek Machar lack requisite leadership needed to bring peace. July 23, 2018 In "News" South Sudan rebel leader Riek Machar was sworn in as first vice president on Saturday, formally rejoining the government in the latest bid to bring peace to a nation ravaged by war. President Salva Kiir hailed the "official ending of war" and said peace was now "irreversible" as the new… February 22, 2020 In "Foreign"