He said; “On the Chinese Doctors, I want to, first of all, explain that I think not all of them were doctors and I think that I heard that some of them are Technicians but they are staff of CCECC. “The Ministry of Health is not their host. So, we cannot always explain what happened to them or where they are. There seems to be a lot of interest in these doctors but they are staff of the company and I think they are on the company visa. “So, I will be very happy if you do not ask me about where they are because they are not really our guests in that sense. But we have been able to learn some things from them by interacting with them on their experiences in their country. “We have shared experiences as to what they did in their country, how they managed their Covid-19”. Vanguard recalls that the PTF had on April 6 defended the coming of the Chinese team, saying every country needs all the help it can get and that even the “almighty United States of America USA” is seeking external help. According to the PTF, the Chinese will only offer their experiences and expertise as they are not accredited by the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria to ply their trade in the country. He, however, said no country on earth has greater experience than China when it comes to managing the Covid-19. The SGF had said; “One major support that has attracted public commentaries is the offer by CCECC, a Chinese company to import about 256 equipment and items in different quantities, notable amongst which are, 1,300,000 medical masks, over 150,000 pieces of assorted personal protective equipment as well as 50 medical ventilators. “The company has also proposed, on its own, to sponsor public health experts to help strengthen our public health capacity and advise on processes and procedures. “However, I wish to clarify that all Countries of the world are seeking assistance and are receiving help in the fight against COVID-19. Even the ‘almighty’ United States is looking for heal elsewhere. “The support coming from China is a Corporate Social Responsibility initiative by CCECC, a company with total value of infrastructure contracts worth over $10 billion in Nigeria. “The professionals that have been invited from China are public health specialists and medical engineers that will support Nigeria’s capacity in managing the Pandemic on advisory basis when necessary while drawing from the experience of the Chinese. “In no way shall there be case management and interface with patients. They will train our manpower, advise on procedures and methods, install and test the equipment donated before handing them over. “I, therefore, use this medium to appeal to our medical professionals to see the positive aspects of this gesture as an extension of development in the field of medicine. The PTF recognizes and respects the competence and capability of Nigerian Doctors and other medical personnel. This is a state of war against the coronavirus and time should not be devoted to unhelpful controversies”. Vanguard News Nigeria.  An absurd paradox —Dr. Casmir Ifeanyi, National, PRO, ALMSN In his own views, the National PRO of the Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists of Nigeria, AMLSN, Dr. Casmir Ifeanyi, described the Minister’s statement as absurd and a paradox. Ifeanyi said:  “The statement by the Minister is a paradox when compared… October 26, 2019 In "Health" Reps to Buhari, FG: Visiting Chinese doctors must be quarantined for 14 days April 6, 2020 In "News" …The plan is unsustainable and spells doom for the Nigerian health sector - Dr. Francis Faduyile, President, NMA …The plan is unsustainable and spells doom for Nigerian health sector —Dr. Francis Faduyile, President, NMA  …It’s unfortunate and ill-advised —Dr. Saliu Oseni, Chairman Lagos NMA …An absurd paradox —Dr. Casmir Ifeanyi,… October 25, 2019 In "Health"