The first batch of Nigerians evacuated from the United Kingdom (UK) has arrived Lagos on Friday. Confirming the development, the Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri, said; “First evacuation from the UK has landed in Lagos. The passengers will be proceeding to Abuja where they will be on 14-day compulsory isolation”. She confirmed their arrival few minutes after hinting that the flight will be “arriving Lagos today at about 1.30 pm. Then head to Abuja. Returnees will be quarantined in Abuja.” The compulsory isolation is in line with the coronavirus prevention guidelines recommended by health experts to curb the spread of the virus. Recall, the first batch of 265 Nigerians evacuated from the United Arab Emirates, UAE, on Wednesday evening, arrived Nigeria through the Muritala Muhammed International Airports, Lagos. Abike Dabiri has however confirmed the Nigerian embassy in Dubai is planning another one. She said the mission will update on arrangements. According to her, “there are requests from 75 countries. Will be in stages. Our missions in those countries are to arrange and advise the PTF appropriately.” She also enjoined Nigerians in South Africa to liaise with the Nigerian mission over there for updates. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Lawani Mikairu The first batch of 265 Nigerians repatriated from the United Arab Emirates, UAE, on Wednesday evening, arrived Nigeria through the Muritala Muhammed International Airports, Lagos. The flight had earlier returned to the UAE after a woman went into labour midair. ALSO READ: Plane conveying Nigerian returnees from… May 6, 2020 In "News" By Victoria Ojeme Emirates Airlines is scheduled to evacuate the first batch of 265 Nigerians from Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) and they will arrive at 3.00 pm on Wednesday, 6th May 2020 at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos. A statement by the spokesperson of the Ministry of… May 6, 2020 In "News" The Lagos State Government on Wednesday gave a sum of N20,000 to each of the second batch of 315 Nigerians evacuated from South Africa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the fresh batch of returnees arrived a week after another 187 Nigerians fleeing xenophobia came back from South… September 18, 2019 In "News"