Lesotho’s former first lady, Maesaiah Thabane, has left the country a day after a Court of Appeal ordered her rearrest, according to the nation’s police on Saturday. Maesaiah Thabane is suspected of orchestrating the shooting of Lipolelo Thabane her husband’s estranged wife. who was gunned down outside her home in the capital Maseru, in 2017. Police have also charged her with the attempted murder of Lipolelo Thabane’s friend Thato Sibolla, who was wounded at the scene. Lesotho police commissioner Holomo Molibeli said authorities were informed on Friday through her lawyer that she had accompanied her husband Thomas Thabane to South Africa for medical treatment. “We are aware that the former prime minister has left the country for medical care in South Africa,” Molibeli told AFP. “Maesaiah’s lawyer informed us yesterday that she has accompanied her husband to South Africa. We don’t know when they will be back in the country.” Previously freed by Lesotho’s High Court on a 1,000 maloti ($57) bail, on Friday Lesotho’s court of appeal revoked her bail and ordered her rearrest. Thabane stepped down at the beginning of May following months of calls for his resignation over the murder of his estranged wife amid a bitter divorce battle. Both Tom and Maesaiah deny any involvement in her death. Lesotho’s former finance minister, Moeketsi Majoro, was sworn in as prime minister last week, replacing the octogenarian leader. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. A Lesotho court has issued an arrest warrant for the prime minister's wife after she failed to turn up for questioning over the 2017 murder of his previous wife, police said Saturday. The announcement came just days after senior officials in the ruling party called for Prime Minister Thomas Thabane… January 11, 2020 In "Foreign" The wife of Lesotho’s Prime Minister, who is charged with murdering her predecessor, will stand trial on March 17, a magistrate ruled on Tuesday when she appeared in court. Maesaiah Thabane was detained this month accused of ordering the killing of Prime Minister Thomas Thabane’s estranged wife Lipolelo. ALSO READ: NAF… February 18, 2020 In "News" Lesotho police on Tuesday charged first lady Maesaiah Thabane with murder for her alleged links to the brutal 2017 killing of the prime minister's previous wife. Maesaiah Thabane, 42, will spend the night in custody after she came out of hiding and turned herself in to the police earlier on… February 4, 2020 In "Foreign"