Rivers State Government has slashed its 2020 budget size by nearly half, 48% from N530,813,357,619.00 Billion to 300,370,071,183.00 Billion. The state has also announced a free bus service for commuters in Port Harcourt and environs from Monday, June 1, 2020, through the coronavirus pandemic just as the dead can now be buried under the pandemic based on imposed conditions. These decisions were announced following Wednesday State Executive Council Meeting, presided over by Governor Nyesom Wike at the Government House, Port Harcourt. Isaac Kamalu, Commissioner for Finance and Supervisory Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning who announced the budget slash said approval was also given for review of 2020 Medium Term Expenditure Framework, accommodating downsizing of the budget, considering of all necessary parameters geared towards purposeful service and effective leadership delivery. Commissioner for Transport, Sunny Ejekwu said the Free Bus Scheme with a fleet of 28 Luxury Buses to convey commuters in Obio/Akpor, Port Harcourt, Eleme and Oyigbo Local Government Areas was done to ameliorate sufferings being faced by the Rivers populace Ejekwu said the wearing of facemasks was compulsory for any commuter desirous enjoying the free buses. Commissioner for Information and Communications, Paulinus Nsirim, then announced the setting up of an Executive Committee to outline conditions to enable bereaved families to bury loved ones under Covid-19. The Committee, headed by Secretary to the State Government, Tammy Danagogo, has Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Prof. Zaccheus Adangor, Commissioner for Special Duties, Thomas Bariere, Commissioner for Youths, Prince Ohia and Special Adviser to the Governor on Special Projects, Dax Kelly as members. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Davies Iheamnachor - Port Harcourt The Rivers State Government has threatened that it would withdraw the operational license of any school that defiles its shut down directive following the threats of the Coronavirus pandemic. The State Governor, Chief Nyesom Wike had announced the closure of public and private primary,… March 20, 2020 In "News" The Chairman of Beverly Hills Hotels and Resorts Ltd, Chief Gabriel Chukwuma is popularly known as Gabros has shut down his Port Harcourt branch of hotels. The decision to shut down the hotel which is said to be the second biggest hotel in Port Harcourt is in support of the… March 26, 2020 In "News" PORT  HARCOURT—GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, has al released land at the Greater Port Harcourt City to the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB, for construction of its Zonal Office in the state. June 28, 2019 In "News"