The World Health Organisation (WHO) says hand hygiene is one of the most effective actions to reduce the spread of pathogens and the COVID-19 virus. WHO made this known on Tuesday in a statement posted on its website to commemorate the Global Hand Hygiene Day, celebrated yearly on May 5. According to WHO, the main goal of the Global Hand Hygiene Day campaign is to recognise that handwashing is one of the most effective actions an individual can take. “This is to reduce the spread of pathogens and prevent infections, including the COVID-19 virus,” it said. Hand Hygiene Day mobilises people around the world to increase adherence to hand hygiene in healthcare facilities, thus protecting healthcare workers and patients from infections. “This year, the campaign theme: “SAVE LIVES: Clean Your Hands”, is aligned with the Year of the Nurse and the Midwife. “It aims to recognise nurses and midwives as frontline heroes who deserve acknowledgment and appreciation and highlight their critical roles in infection prevention. “Health workers and community members alike can play a role in preventing infections by practicing regular and frequent handwashing,” it said. As part of the 2020 campaign, WHO and partners aim to make hand hygiene a global priority, inspire hand hygiene and behaviour change. Also, engage with healthcare workers in their role in clean care and the prevention of infections. “The campaign also makes a call to action to policy-makers to provide safe work environments for nurses and improve staffing levels. “Additionally, it calls on infection prevention and control leaders to empower nurses and midwives in providing clean care,” it said. WHO said the campaign also contributes to the United Nations Secretary General’s Global Call to Action on Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) in healthcare facilities. vanguard By Iorhem Ephraim Akase ABOUT 174 years ago in the city of Vienna, a young Hungarian doctor named Ignaz Semmelweis stumbled across a link between pathogens on the hand and the spread of communicable diseases. His solution – a mix of hand washing and instrument sterilisation between seeing patients -… April 9, 2020 In "Viewpoint" ...Experts speak, insist on handwashing By Chioma Obinna As at 11:34 GMT, March 6, a total of 100, 242 coronavirus cases, 3,408 deaths and 55,812 recovered had been recorded across the world. 94 countries are affected. Since the outbreak of coronavirus, also known as COVID-19, the social media in Nigeria… March 8, 2020 In "Health" Persons admitted to isolation centers get symptoms resolved as their immune systems fight virus off By Sola Ogundipe There is currently no cure for the novel Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) but researchers are working on creating a suitable vaccine as well as coming up with potential treatments and a number of… May 5, 2020 In "Health"