Enugu has recorded another confirmed positive case of COVID-19, making it the 9th patient recorded in the State. However, the first two patients had since been managed and discharged leaving the State with 7 active cases. The new case is a nine-year-old child, contact of the fourth case reported in the State who had a positive travel history. A statement the State Commissioner of Health, Prof. Emmanuel Obi said “the patient has been admitted into one of our Isolation and Treatment Centres”, adding that “further contacts are being identified and line listed, and necessary samples will be taken for testing”. He also announced that “decontamination of the patient’s home has been promptly carried out”. He called on people of Enugu State to stay at home, and “only go out when absolutely necessary and to wear “an appropriate cloth face mask”. “Avoid touching the front of the mask, and to always remove the mask from both ears at once, wash and iron if possible once you get home. Continue to practice physical/social distancing of at least 2m (or 6ft) apart from each other”, the commissioner advised them even as he reminded them to maintain other protective protocols in respect of the fight against COVID-19. All the cases recorded in the State were imported from other States despite the closure of the interstate borders which are manned by security personnel. Worried by this development, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has commenced regular and unscheduled visits to the closed borders following reports lack seriousness on the part of the security personnel manning the various interstate boundaries, especially the State’s border with Benue and Kogi states which is a gateway to the State and other South-East states from many states in the North. The had on a number of visits turned back unauthorized vehicles, some with passengers on these borders, and asked that they are escorted back to where they were coming from. Vanguard ENUGU state has recorded a fourth confirmed case of COVID-19. May 3, 2020 In "Health" LAGOS—THE Lagos State government, yesterday, said there was no existing law in the state that stops the release of the bodies of COVID-19 dead patients to their relatives. April 20, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" …urges residents on screening, compliance to directives The Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, has said the state is making steady progress in the management of coronavirus (COVID-19), noting that the remaining eight active cases of COVID-19 are being managed at different isolations centres across the state and… April 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"