Chairman of Governors Mandate Network, Earl Osaro Onaiwu has implored the newly appointed Chief of Staff to President Muhmadu Buhari and Prof. Ibrahim Gambari to always ensure he gets the maximum cooperation of State Governors so as to guarantee a resounding success in his new office. Speaking to Vanguard while he was reacting to the appointment of the erudite scholar and diplomat in Abuja, Onaieu congratulated the newly appointed Chief of Staff to the President and hinted that he can largely succeed in his new duty post by getting the full cooperation of State Governors. According to Onaiwu, “Prof. Gambari is someone many who have come in contact with can attest to his good character and intellectual soundness. ” I can vividly recall how I met the new Chief of Staff way back in 1998 when we both lived as neighbours at the Ikeja G.R.A in Lagos. “Having been tested and trusted in many positions up to the global level, I can only advise the Chief of Staff to work harmoniously with the 36 state governors so that the entire country can benefit from the quality service he will render to the nation. “The governors who are the face of governance at the grassroots would greatly assist to project the projects and programmes of the presidency better if properly engaged. “We can only pray here that the new Chief of Staff will enjoy a peaceful and productive time in office, “Onaiwu stated. Vanguard Edo State governorship election has been scheduled to take place on September 10. The process to nominate the flag bearer of the former ruling party in the state, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), now the opposition, has reached feverish pitch. The four aspirants, itching to become the candidate of the… April 17, 2016 In "News" By Abayomi Adeshida - Abuja The political tension building up around the National Chairman of the ruling All Peoples Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole just increased by another political pressure group in Abuja. The Governors' Mandate Network (GMN) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to call  Oshiomhole to order so as… March 2, 2020 In "News" GOVERNORS Mandate Network, GMN, has advised the governors that we're victorious at the Supreme Court to be magnanimous with the victory so as to avoid unnecessary distractions. February 3, 2020 In "News"