The wife of Nigerian singer, Kcee, brother to E-Money, has been delivered of a baby boy. The singer broke the news through his Instagram page on Tuesday. He wrote: “When counting the luckiest people on earth, I count myself first. My wife just gave birth to a bouncing baby boy (King Kwemtochukwu) today (on Tuesday) which happens to be her birthday. “The mother, the father, the newborn baby, Kanye, Sommy and of course, his favourite uncle @iam_emoney1 are all doing well. “You should all please help me wish @missijay a happy birthday and ask her what she wants as her birthday gift because money is no problem.”   When counting the luckiest people on earth I count myself first , my wife just gave birth to a bouncing baby boy (King Kwemtochukwu Okonkwo) today which happens to be her birthday . The mother , the father , the new born baby , Kanye ,Sommy and off course his favorite uncle @iam_emoney1 are all doing very well. You all should pls help me wish @misseijay a happy birthday and ask her what she wants as her birthday gift cos money no be problem. God is the greatest no  Cc @mrchidozie A post shared by  KCEE (@iam_kcee) on May 12, 2020 at 6:45am PDT  Kcee is the brother of Emeka Okonkwo, popularly known as E-Money, Chairman of Five Star Group. Kcee and wife’s baby is coming at a time E-Money is being investigated by the Inspector General of Police, leading to the alleged withdrawal of his Police escorts. At the time of going to press, attempts to reach both Kcee and E-Money on the matter were unsuccessful, as both did not pick calls to their mobile phones. Vanguard There are indications that all is not well between “Better Pikin” crooner, Harrison Tare Okiri, popularly known as Harrysong, and his record label, Five Star Music, owned by business mogul, Emeka Okonkwo (a.k.a E-Money) and his elder brother Kingsley Okonkwo (a.k.a Kcee). June 30, 2016 In "Entertainment" The inaugural leg of this year’s Star Music Trek, which took place at the Municipal Garden on Saturday May 2, 2015, continues today at Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. The Calabar leg which featured epic performances by some of the biggest names in Nigerian music such as Wande Coal, KCee, Burna Boy,… May 9, 2015 In "News" Popular Nigerian pop star and acclaimed Five Star Music General, Kcee, has launched a new line of luxury underwear, 'La Cueca'. The lovely, easy to wear and sexy underwear comes in different sizes and colours for both men and women. April 17, 2018 In "Entertainment"