ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration FCTA has said those who attended the burial of the late Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari have now completed their 14 days of isolation and have tested negative for Covid-19. Consequently, they have been reunited with their families. Acting Secretary Health and Human Services Secretariat in the FCT, Dr Muhammed Kawu disclosed this in a statement Sunday in Abuja. He said; “The Health and Human Services Secretariat of the FCT Administration is happy to announce that the individuals exposed during the burial of late Chief of staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari, have completed their 14 days of isolation. Tests were conducted on them and they have all tested negative to COVID 19. They have been reunited with their families”. Kyari was buried on April 18 at the Gudu Cemetery in Abuja, but the event saw many government officials violating the social distancing measures of the federal government. Consequently, both officials and journalists who attended the burial were sent on mandatory 14-day isolation. Vanguard News Nigeria By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has said those who attended the burial of the late Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari, have now completed their 14 days of isolation and have tested negative for COVID-19. Consequently, they have been reunited with… May 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja The Federal Capital Territory Administration FCTA has expressed dismay at the unprofessional conduct of some of those who conducted the burial rites of the late Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, saying they have all been identified and would be quarantined. Dr Mohammed… April 18, 2020 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi The Federal Capital Territory Administration FCTA has expressed dismay at the unprofessional conduct of some of those who conducted the burial rites of the late Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, saying they have all been identified and would be quarantined. Dr Mohammed Kawu,… April 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"