The European Union on Saturday called on the United States (US) to “reconsider” the decision to sever ties with the World Health Organisation (WHO) over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic. President Donald Trump said Friday he was severing US ties with the WHO, accusing it of failing to do enough to combat the initial spread of the virus. The United States was the largest contributor to the WHO budget, providing at least $400 million in annual funding. “The WHO needs to continue being able to lead the international response to pandemics, current and future,” Commission president Ursula von der Leyen and foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell said in a joint statement. “For this, the participation and support of all is required and very much needed.” The statement noted that the EU had already provided additional funding for the UN agency. “As the world continues to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, the main task for everyone is to save lives and contain and mitigate this pandemic,” it said. “Now is the time for enhanced cooperation and common solutions. Actions that weaken international results must be avoided. “We urge the US to reconsider its announced decision.” Trump initially suspended funding to the WHO last month, charging it with being too lenient with China, where the virus emerged late last year. He said Friday the US would be redirecting WHO funds “to other worldwide and deserving urgent global public health needs.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. United States President, Donald Trump, cast doubt Wednesday on the accuracy of official Chinese figures on its coronavirus outbreak after US lawmakers, citing an intelligence report, accused Beijing of a cover up. "How do we know" if they are accurate, Trump asked at a press conference. "Their numbers seem to… April 2, 2020 In "Foreign" China on Friday urged the United States to meet it halfway and strengthen cooperation in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic after President Donald Trump threatened to sever bilateral ties. Relations between the world's two largest economies have deteriorated in recent weeks, with both sides trading barbs over the origins… May 15, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Iran accused European governments Thursday of sacrificing a troubled 2015 nuclear deal to avoid trade reprisals from US President Donald Trump who has spent nearly two years trying to scupper it. Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said Trump was again behaving like a "high school bully" and the decision by… January 16, 2020 In "Foreign"