The state of Michigan in the United States has experienced what officials warned will be a historic flood. the flood was caused by the failure of two dams while more than 10,000 residents of the area have since been evacuated. The State’s governor, Gretchen Whitmer, declared a state of emergency in Midland County, site of the breached dams, in the towns of Edenville and Sanford. The United States Weather Service has however warned of life-threatening flash flooding and joined the Michigan governor in urging people in the area to seek higher ground immediately as the dams fail. The downtown area of Midland, a city of about 42,000 people, could soon be under approximately nine feet (three meters) of water, according to Whitmer, who warned of “historic” high flood levels. The city said on its website that 11,000 people were evacuating and that no deaths had been reported. “Residents are strongly urged to continue evacuating,” the city said in a statement. Authorities said the Tittabawassee River that flows through Midland has reached 35 feet, well above flood stage and one foot higher than the previous record level set in 1986. The river is expected to rise another three feet before cresting. Images taken from helicopters show vast stretches of land underwater, bridges washed away, and homes and buildings flooded. The flooding disaster and the evacuation are being compounded by the coronavirus pandemic, which has forced people to observe social distancing. “It’s hard to believe that we are in the midst of a 100-year crisis — a global pandemic — and that also we’re dealing with a flooding that looks to be the worst in 500 years,” Whitmer said. The governor urged those evacuating to shelters to wear face masks and maintain social distancing when possible. Multiple rivers in Michigan — a northern state surrounded by the Great Lakes — had reached flood stage by Tuesday after up to four inches of rain fell in recent days. US President Donald Trump is scheduled to travel to Michigan, an important electoral state, on Thursday to visit an auto manufacturing plant that has been repurposed to make ventilators. The plant is in southern Michigan near its largest city, Detroit. Whitmer, with whom the president has clashed over pandemic response issues, said she intends to give Trump “a full briefing” on the breached dams and resulting flooding. Early Wednesday Trump tweeted his complaints about the state’s vote by mail efforts. The state capital Lansing, about 100 miles south of the flooding, was the scene of new demonstrations protesting the state’s stay-at-home orders. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. ...Trail of tragedies, hardships across Nigeria WHEN environmentalists started talking about climate change, its adverse impacts and the need to mitigate its effects, many skeptics saw the phenomenon as one of those scientific jargons that would soon fizzle out; the same way the unwary described HIV/AIDS as an American invention… October 3, 2012 In "Features" The Edo State Government has urged people living in riverine communities that are prone to flooding, to move upland and take refuge in safe havens that have been created in local government areas in the state. September 5, 2018 In "News" Governor Mohammed Jibrilla  of Adamawa state has warned the people of the state to prepare for flooding following the release of water from Lagdo Dam by the Cameroonian authorities. August 25, 2018 In "News"