ABUJA – The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio has ordered the immediate shutdown of the headquarters of the Niger Delta Development Commission in Port Harcourt following the sudden death of the Commission’s Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Chief Ibanga Etang. Chief Etang, whose death occurred in the early hours of Thursday at the Rivers State University Teaching Hospital in Port Harcourt, was suspected to have died from complications arising from coronavirus disease. To this ends, Senator Akpabio has directed all staff of the Commission currently exhibiting symptoms not to panic but to report to the nearest NCDC centre in Port Harcourt for evaluation. The ministry in a statement by its Director, Press & PR, Mrs Deworitshe Patricia said the “Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Dr Godswill Akpabio, has directed the immediate temporary closure of the Corporate Headquarters of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Port Harcourt as a result of a suspected outbreak of COVID-19, Coronavirus disease. “He has also advised all staff currently exhibiting symptoms not to panic but to report to the nearest NCDC centre in Port Harcourt for evaluation and possible treatment. Further actions shall be communicated as would be directed by the Headquarters of the NCDC.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Willie Etim INSINUATIONS of corrupt practices in the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, are not entirely new to stakeholders and various other interest groups in the region. These allegations have never been waived aside as successive administrations had attempted to sanitise the commission. The pronouncement of a forensic audit for… May 15, 2020 In "Viewpoint" *Accuse Akpabio of undue interference By Perez Brisibe REACTIONS have continued to trail the Mrs. Joy Ghene Nuieh led 3-man steering committee of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC with the Ijaw Youth Council, IYC, Oro Youth Movement, OYOM and the Vanguard for Transparent Leadership and Democratic, VATLAD describing the… October 30, 2019 In "News" The sack of Ms Joi Nunieh on Wednesday February 19th 2019, barely four months after she was appointed Acting Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) is yet another chapter in the quagmire that the agency has been plunged into since Godswill Akpabio was appointed the Minister of Niger… February 25, 2020 In "News"