Cross River State Governor, Prof Ben Ayade, has ordered that worship centres can resume activities stressing that they must wear face masks and only occupy sitting capacity of such centre. The order was contained in a release on Wednesday, signed by his Special Adviser, Media & Publicity, Mr Christian It’s and made available to Vanguard. He said:” We are very grateful to the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Archbishops, Bishops, Priests, Pastors, Christians of various denominations. “We are also grateful for the entire Muslim community for their support and cooperation during the period of suspension of public worship in our state in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. “We acknowledge the understanding and cooperation of religious leaders contributed immensely in keeping our State Coronavirus Free thus far. “However, conscious of the Spiritual Economy, and in response to appeals by religious leaders in our state, His Excellency has issued the following executive orders: The order suspending public worship in the state, is hereby lifted with effect from Sunday, May 24th. 2020. “Consequently, starting from Sunday, May 24, 2020, church services are permitted but should be limited to the sitting capacity of the Church. Same applies to Mosques. “Use of face mask is compulsory for all worshipers. Churches and Mosques should provide buckets for hand washing, or sanitizers. “Churches and Mosques are advised to strictly keep to the above instructions. The enforcement team will still go around to check compliance,” Ayade ordered. Vanguard News Nigeria CALABAR — Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State, has warned that since there  will be life after the COVID-19 pandemic, there was the need for government to protect not just lives but also livelihoods. April 14, 2020 In "News" By David Odama Nasarawa State Government, Tuesday, lifted the ban on religious gatherings in the state for two weeks as well as the lockdown order given by the state government three months ago. The state commissioner for Information, Tourism and Culture, Comrade Dogo Shammah, announced this while briefing journalists on… May 19, 2020 In "News" Gov. Ben Ayade of Cross River in the early hours of Wednesday paid an unscheduled visit to the Cross River border post at Itu Bridge. April 8, 2020 In "News"