Federal Government has seized an aircraft belonging to a United Kingdom company, ‘Flair Aviation’ for violating the country’s covid-19 lockdown. President Muhammadu Buhari, had in March, 2020, ordered the closure of airports and airspace, as part of efforts to stem the spread of COVID-19. Ever since then no known company or aircraft has violated the order, until today. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation said “Flair Aviation, a UK company, was given approval for humanitarian operations but regrettably were caught conducting commercial flights in Nigeria. He described the action as callous, saying there would be maximum penalty for the company. His words, “Flair Aviation, a UK company, was given approval for humanitarian operations but regrettably we caught them conducting commercial flights. “This is callous! The craft is impounded, crew being interrogated. There shall be maximum penalty. Wrong time to try our resolve!” COVID-19. Flair Aviation, a UK company, was given approval for humanitarian operations but regrettably we caught them conducting commercial flights. This is callous! The craft is impounded, crew being interrogated. There shall be maximum penalty. Wrong time to try our resolve! — Hadi Sirika (@hadisirika) May 17, 2020  Vanguard By Lawani Mikairu The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika has said the Federal government has impounded an aircraft belonging to Flair Aviation, a United Kingdom-based aviation company for violating the current flight ban into the country. Flair Aviation operated a commercial flight as against the humanitarian operations it was… May 17, 2020 In "Aviation" By Lawani Mikairu The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika yesterday said the Federal government has impounded an aircraft belonging to Flair Aviation, a United Kingdom-based aviation company for violating the current flight ban into the country. Flair Aviation operated a commercial flight as against the humanitarian operations it was… May 17, 2020 In "Aviation" The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika on Sunday said the Federal government has impounded an aircraft belonging to Flair Aviation, a United Kingdom-based aviation company for violating the current flight ban into the country. May 17, 2020 In "News"