Kylie Jenner isn’t a billionaire after all, Forbes magazine said Friday as it accused the reality TV star’s family of “inflating the value of her cosmetics business for years.” Forbes declared the 22-year-old a billionaire in March 2019 owing to the popularity of her Kylie Cosmetics brand but has removed her from their list, citing new information. Kylie Jenner sold a 51 percent stake in her brand to beauty giant Coty in January for $600 million in a deal that valued the company at $1.2 billion. Forbes said in an article published on its website that the fine print of the deal reveals that the business is “significantly smaller and less profitable” than they were led to believe. It also accused the famous family, of which Kylie is the youngest member, of creating tax returns that were “likely forged. “(The) unusual lengths to which the Jenners have been willing to go… reveals just how desperate some of the ultra-rich are to look even richer,” the magazine wrote. It said the new information and the impact of COVID-19 on beauty sales led them to believe she is not a billionaire, even although she pocketed an estimated $340 million after taxes from the sale. Kylie Jenner is not far off from being a billionaire though: Forbes estimates that Jenner’s personal fortune is just under $900 million. Jenner hit back at the magazine on Twitter, accusing it of “a number of inaccurate statements and unproven assumptions.” “I’ve never asked for any title or tried to lie my way there EVER. period,” she wrote. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. 31-year-old international pop music singer, Robyn Rihanna Fenty, has since evolved into a style icon and makeup entrepreneur, and soon she’ll be the first black woman in charge of a major luxury fashion house. June 5, 2019 In "Entertainment" Kanye West, an American rapper has filed legal documents for his own line of makeup’ that will compete with sister-in-law Kylie Jenner’s Lip Kits. February 23, 2017 In "Entertainment" Kylie Jenner revealed that her daughter, who turns two years old on February 1, is helping to create a new Valentine’s Day collection for Kylie Cosmetics. The self-made billionaire posted an Instagram snap of the tiny star hard at work on her Stormi collection, revealing some pretty pink packaging covered… January 6, 2020 In "Entertainment"