 Yobe Governor Mai Mala Buni, said the sum of N200 million has been earmarked every month for payment of entitlements to retirees of the state civil service. This is even as he directed the state ministry of Basic and Secondary education to develop a Quranic education model that will integrate western education as a measure to accommodate almajiris in the state and others repatriated from other states. The Governor disclosed this on Friday in a Radio Phone-in programme monitored by our Correspondent, as part of activities to mark his one year anniversary in office. “I have approved N200 million every month for payment of entitlements to retirees. “I have also directed the state ministry of Basic and Secondary education to develop a Quranic education model that will integrate western education as a measure to accommodate almajiris in the state and others repatriated from other states. “The commissioner of Basic and secondary education is hereby directed to develop a model that will accommodate the almajiri” Buni said. He assured that education, healthcare delivery, agriculture, youth empowerment, security and economic development will continue to remain the priority areas of his administration. According to the governor, his administration will create opportunities for the youth to cultivate a prosperous future for the state. “This administration has engaged many youths with political appointments, we have also provided them with various skills to promote self-reliance and productivity. “About 800 youth have been trained on paint making and many others as automobile technicians, some of who have become employers of labour,” Buni said. end Vanguard As the controversy surrounding the issue of Almajiri compulsory education in Kaduna state rages on, the Northern Elders Forum, NEF, has said that every Nigerian child including the Almajiri, deserve protection from government. May 26, 2020 In "News" What started as noble course to imbibe in young children, the knowledge of Islamic education several years ago has become an albatross and a threat to the security of lives of children in many states of northern Nigeria. November 16, 2019 In "News" A practice that President Goodluck Jonathan recently described as “dangerous to national development,” the Almajiri tradition has once again occupied most national discourse, especially with the recent introduction of Almajiri Model Education by the Federal Government. Would the commencement of this policy dismantle this old tradition that is generally seen… April 26, 2012 In "Features"