Following the treatment of about 55 COVID-19 patients with Madagascar’s herbal drugs, ‘COVID-Organics’, President Muhammadu Buhari, Monday, ordered the presidential task force on COVID-19 to go for the drug. He advised them to use it for the treatment of covid-19 patients in the country.  Disclosing this at the daily briefing of the task force, the secretary to the government of the federation, Boss Mustapha said, Madagascar donated some of the products to Nigeria through Guinea-Bissau. He noted that arrangements are ongoing to bring it down to the country. “The president of Madagascar sent it to Guinea Bissau. Certain allocations have been made to different countries. “We have an indication of the quantities that have been allocated to Nigeria, and we are supposed to make arrangements to freight it out of Bissau to Nigeria. “I have received instructions from Mr President to make arrangements to freight it home.” Vanguard By Omeiza Ajayi Nigeria has ordered for Madagascar's COVID-19 vaccine. Madagascar has been using the herbal cure called “COVID-19 Organic” The Federal Government, however, said the product would be subjected to scientific analysis to ascertain its genuineness and perhaps begin local production. Nigeria's order for Madagascar's COVID-19 vaccine came on… May 11, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Madagascar on Saturday delivered to Guinea-Bissau a shipment of a herbal tea that President Andry Rajoelina has touted as a powerful remedy against the novel coronavirus and hopes to distribute across West Africa and beyond. Baptised Covid-Organics, the drink is derived from artemisia -- a plant with proven efficacy in… May 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Two more African countries have joined the list of patrons for Madagascar’s purported cure for COVID-19. Tanzania and Comoros confirmed their interest in the herbal cure over this weekend. The Comorian president, Azali Assoumani, held a teleconference with his Malagasy counterpart, Andry Rajoelina, following which a formal request was made… May 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"