THE Army captain, D Gana and three others abducted by suspected herdsmen along Auga/Akunnu highway in Akoko North-East council area of Ondo State have been rescued by security operatives. The spokesman of the Nigerian Army 32 Artillery Brigade, Akure, Captain Ayorinde Omojokun said a combined team of the Army and other security agencies rescued the military officer and others without paying any ransom. Recall that the kidnappers who opened line of communication with the families of the victims had demanded for N20m ransom. The kidnappers reportedly escaped from the hideout where the victims were kept on arrival of the rescue team. Efforts to speak with the Army Officer proved abortive as he declined comment. Meanwhile, the State Police Command has arrested two persons in connection with the killing of a leader of the Ogboni Fraternity in the South West, Chief Stephen Akinkunmi in Ore area of the state. Akinkunmi was allegedly killed in the premises of the Saint Stephen Hotel, Ore on yesterday (Thursday). Vanguard gathered that the deceased was shot dead after he refused to enter into his car as ordered by his killers. Report had it that some documents and cash of about N2 million said to belong to the deceased were allegedly carted away after he was shot dead Speaking on his death, the deceased brother, Joshua Akindele said the laid ambush for his brother in the hotel having lodged there for three days. Also, the deceased wife Mrs Toyin Akinkunmi cried out to the state government and the security agents for protection. Toyin said she had been receiving threat messages from some people. ” Some people have been calling us on the telephone, threatening our lives, we want the security agencies to help us arrest the perpetrators, we also want justice.” Police image maker Tee-Leo Ikoro, who confirmed the arrest of the two suspects said the command had begun investigation into the incident. Ikoro assured the public that ” We are after the perpetrators and we will ensure they are brought to book,” Vanguard News Nigeria Akure—AN Army captain and three others were reportedly abducted by suspected herdsmen along Auga/Akunnu highway in Akoko North-East council area of Ondo State. May 14, 2020 In "News" Akure—DISTURBED by the security threat occasioned by various abductions of prominent and innocent persons in the state, the Nigeria Army, yesterday, raided kidnappers’ dens and arrested seven of their kingpins in Akoko area of Ondo State and border towns. September 21, 2017 In "News" Akure—DISTURBED by the security threat occasioned by various abductions of prominent and innocent persons in the state, the Nigeria Army, yesterday, raided kidnappers’ dens and arrested seven of their kingpins in Akoko area of Ondo State and border towns. September 21, 2017 In "News"