Liverpool have been promised they will be allowed a Prem trophy lift, but behind closed doors. Jurgen Klopp’s men need just two wins from their remaining nine games when the Premier League returns next month to lift the crown for the first time since 1990. The Kop will be denied the right to witness the historic moment in person with all resumption games taking place in empty stadiums. But League chief executive Richard Masters vowed that the new champions will be handed the trophy in the traditional manner, allowing them a sort of celebration. Masters said: “If at all possible, yes, there will be a ceremony and they will pass the trophy round. “We would like to have a trophy presentation to give the players and staff the moment they have worked so hard for. “So we would try and do it unless it wasn’t possible because of safety concerns. “From a planning perspective, we are focused on finishing the 2019-20 season, but we also have to plan for all eventualities.” Meanwhile, the Premier League are considering using fake crowd noises inside stadiums to enhance the viewer experience. The return of the Bundesliga at the weekend was an advert as to how matches will look once football gets back underway in England. With empty stands, the only sound was the ball being struck and the occasional shouts from players and coaches. Vanguard Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp has challenged his players to stop Real Madrid lifting a third consecutive Champions League trophy on Saturday and show fans that winning "big things" is still in the club's DNA. May 26, 2018 In "Sports" Jurgen Klopp hailed "fantastic" Mohamed Salah as the key to Liverpool's title dreams as they powered back to the top of the Premier League thanks to the Egypt star's stunning strike in a 2-0 win over Chelsea on Sunday. April 15, 2019 In "Sports" Raheem Sterling says Manchester City are motivated by the pursuit of silverware rather than the promise of breaking more records as the Premier League leaders chase another landmark at Crystal Palace this weekend. Pep Guardiola's side have already turned the title race into a lengthy coronation party after winning 18th… December 29, 2017 In "Sports"