The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has commended the Kebbi State Government for releasing N2.4 billion as part payment of gratuities and leave grants for junior staff. Malam Umar Alhassan, the Kebbi state Chairman of the congress, said the release of the fund would enhance the lifestyle of retired workers, adding that the leave grant will also enhance workers’ welfare. Alhassan made this known in a statement to mark 2020 May Day Celebration on Friday in Birnin Kebbi. The chairman described the gesture by Gov. Atiku Bagudu as commendable and worthy of emulation by other governors, in a bid to alleviate the plight of workers. He, however, appealed for extension of similar gesture to senior staff to enable them benefit from what he described as ‘kind effort’. Alhassan also called on members of the congress to reciprocate the gesture by supporting the present administration at all levels, to pave way for more democratic dividends. Besides, the unionist appealed to the state government to convene a mini economic summit in order to fashion out other ways of generating revenue for the state. According to him, the summit, if organised will not only be a source of revenue mobilisation to the state but also reduce over dependence on oil, which may no longer be feasible. Alhassan urged government to also ensure that agricutural inputs were supplied to the farmers early enough to further encourage farming activities across the state. On Ramadan fasting, the chairman called on the Muslim Ummah to use the period to pray for Almighty God’s intervention to bring an end to COVID-19 pandemic. He commended the efforts of the state government in curbing the spread of the disease in the state. The labour leader enjoined all civil servants in the state to continue to adhere strictly to preventive measures against the pandemic as directed by experts and government. Vanguard News Nigeria The Kebbi Government said it has paid over N9 billion as pension and gratuities to over 3, 500 retirees in the state. May 1, 2018 In "News" The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in Kebbi has commended the state government for releasing one billion naira for payment of outstanding pension of retired civil servants. January 10, 2016 In "News" Many state governments have used the third tranche of the Paris Club refund to pay the arrears of workers’ salary and pension, a survey by the News Agency of Nigeria has revealed. January 19, 2018 In "Business"