Alphabet said in a regulatory filing that CEO Sundar Pichai was awarded US$281-million  in compensation last year, making him one of the world’s highest-paid executives. Most of the package is stock awards, some of which will be paid out depending on Alphabet’s stock return relative to other companies in the S&P 100 index. That means his haul can become significantly smaller, or much bigger. Pichai’s annual salary was $650 000 in 2019, according to a proxy statement filed with regulators on Friday. The company has said that will rise to $2-million this year. The CEO’s compensation is 1 085 times the median total pay of Alphabet employees, the company also said in the filing. Pichai took over as CEO of Alphabet from Larry Page at the end of last year as Page and co-founder Sergey Brin stepped away from the company. Now, the 47-year-old executive will have to navigate Alphabet through the coronavirus crisis and economic recession. Pichai has already cut back significantly on hiring and investment plans for the year. This year, the Alphabet’s board changed the companies it compares itself to when it decides how to determine compensation. It added Netflix, Comcast and Salesforce.com while removing HP and Qualcomm. Also on the list: Apple, Amazon.com and Facebook. Tech Central Vanguard Alphabet Inc’s (GOOGL.O) newly instated Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai would receive a hefty $240 million in performance-based stock awards over the next three years, the highest ever promised to any executive of the search giant. Pichai would also take home $2 million in annual salary starting 2020, according to… December 22, 2019 In "Technology" YouTube generated nearly $5 billion in ad revenue in the last three months, Google revealed today as part of parent company Alphabet’s fourth-quarter earnings report. This is the first report under newly instated Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai, who took over as the chief executive of the entire company late last… February 4, 2020 In "Technology" Search e‎ngine giant Google, recently named Sundar Pichai as its Chief Executive Officer, thus reorganizing under a new moniker, Alphabet. In this interview with Google's communication and Public Affairs Manager for Anglophone West Africa, Taiwo Kola-Ogunlade,‎ he explained that Google has not changed its name, but rather, has only restructured… August 11, 2015 In "News"