President Muhammadu Buhari has directed fierce military operations to end incessant criminal attacks in Sokoto State and other parts of the country. Buhari also reassured Nigerians that the Federal Government is determined to protect them against “remorseless psychopathic mass killers who have no regard for the sanctity of life’’. The president gave the reassurance in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Thursday. The presidential aide said Buhari was reacting to the reported killings of innocent citizens in Sabon Birnin Local Government Area of Sokoto State. The president noted that a major military operation, code-named “Operation Accord” was launched by the military, targeting the bandits that had been tormenting North-West and North Central states. “This operation will be full time and sustained military offensive that is intended to deny the bandits any breathing space to reorganise and regroup,’’ he said. Buhari condoled with families who lost loved ones in the attacks by bandits, praying for the quick recovery of those that sustained injuries. “As the world and Nigeria battle Coronavirus pandemic, it is tragic and unfortunate that bandits have remained active in parts of the country, killing innocent people and throwing families into despair. “We will not abandon you to your fate because we are determined to bring these mass murderers to their knees and crush them totally,’’ the statement read in part. PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said it was tragic and unfortunate that bandits have remained active in parts of the country, killing innocent people and throwing families into despair during this period that the world and Nigeria battle Coronavirus pandemic. May 28, 2020 In "News" The Ministry of Defense has reacted to the recent attack on Zamfara and Kaduna States, which led to lost of many lives and properties. December 22, 2018 In "News" …wants operations extended to Zamfara, Kaduna, Niger and Sokoto states The Senate on Tuesday commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his recent directive to launch a military offensive against bandits in Katsina State. The commendation came against the backdrop of a motion considered on the floor on the need to integrate… May 19, 2020 In "Politics"