The Kogi State Government, Thursday denied the two index cases reported by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), insisting the state is still COVID-19 free. Recall that the NCDC on its website alleged that, two index cases were recorded in Kogi as at Wednesday, May 27 2020, bringing the total confirmed cases in the country to 8733. In a press statement signed by the State Commissioner for Health, Dr Saka Haruna Audu, described the claim as a fallacy. The statement reads in part; “Kogi State till this very moment is Covid-19 free. We have developed the full testing capacity and have conducted hundreds of tests so far which have returned negative. “We have also continued to insist that we will not be a party to any fictitious Covid-19 claims which is why we do not recognise any Covid-19 test conducted by any Kogite outside the boundaries of the State except those initiated by us. Any attempt to force us to announce a case of Covid-19 will be vehemently rejected. “We continue to enjoin our people to take all necessary precautions to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic into the State and give no listening ears to rumour peddlers and mischief-makers. “We are more than prepared to secure the life of our people and have no interest in playing politics with their health concerns.” Vanguard By Arogbonlo Israel Kogi State, popularly known as 'The Confluence State' has a reputation for controversy. In recent times, the state has been plagued by a series of crises, such as insecurity, political face-off, and ethnic sentiments, among others. It seems there is no end to the controversies. Last week,… May 14, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" South-West is leading other regions in the number of coronavirus confirmed cases across the nation, statistics from the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as of last Thursday, May 21 has shown. May 24, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" As controversy trails non-availability of laboratory testing for COVID-19 cases in Kogi State, suspected cases of the disease are allegedly being seen in hospitals in the state, even as doctors have continued to lament inability to conduct tests. May 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"