Lagos State Government has mourned the death of Justice Isiaka Ishola Oluwa (Retd), saying he would be remembered for his meritorious service and contribution to the growth of the state. Recall, that Justice Oluwa died on Saturday, May 9, 2020 at the age of 102. According to a letter of condolence by Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Lagos State, Moyosore Onigbanjo, SAN, the deceased was an erudite and a rare bred “Lagosian.” The letter read, “On behalf of the Lagos State Ministry of Justice, I wish to commiserate with the entire OLUWA family on the transition of our beloved Hon. Justice Isiaka Ishola Oluwa Retd at a ripe old age of 102 years on Saturday, 9th May 2020. “The news of the demise of our revered Judicial icon, Justice Oluwa is a mixture of sadness and happiness. Happiness; because his transition is a celebration of an impactful life, well-lived and sadness because we will miss his fatherly presence and wisdom at this time. “Justice Oluwa was an erudite, rare bred Lagosian who spent his time in retirement canvassing and championing the cause and interest of Lagosians in every sphere of endeavour. “I know him to be outspoken about the political relevance of Lagosians in all matters of appointments relevant to the management of the State. “The meritorious service and contribution of our revered Justice Oluwa to the growth and development of administration of Justice in Lagos State during his active career years on the bench, as a renowned Justice of the State High Court till his retirement in 1983 will always be remembered. “Justice Oluwa will be sorely missed by all, especially, members of the Judiciary and Ministry of Justice Family. “While we pray for the repose of the Soul of our departed Justice Oluwa, may the Almighty Allah grant the family the strength to bear the pain of this irreparable loss.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Government has said that late Justice Isiaka Ishola Oluwa (Retd) would be remembered for his meritorious service and contribution to the growth of the state. Recall, that Justice Oluwa died today, Saturday, May 9, 2020, at the age of 102. According to a letter of… May 9, 2020 In "News" A retired judge of the High Court of Lagos State, Justice Isiaka Isola Oluwa is dead. He was 102 years old. Justice Oluwa will be remembered as the judge that sentenced Lagos socialite, Alhaji Jimoh Isola, a.k.a Ejigbadero, to death for murder of a farmer, Raji Oba over land disputes,… May 9, 2020 In "News" By Dapo Akinrefon The former Deputy National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Olabode George mourned late Justice Isiaka Oluwa on Saturday, saying he benefitted from Oluwa's selflessness and his wisdom. He described Justice Oluwa as a man of truth, fearlessness and justice. George, in a statement, said the… May 9, 2020 In "News"