Former Chelsea attacker Salomon Kalou has been suspended by German club Hertha Berlin after posting a video showing him flaunting coronavirus social distancing rules by shaking hands with teammates. The Facebook video of Kalou, 34, greeting Hertha players and club employees with handshakes was condemned by the German league, which has put in place stringent hygiene measures as it bids to secure the political green light to restart its interrupted season. “The pictures of Salomon Kalou from the Hertha dressing room are absolutely unacceptable,” the German Football League (DFL) said in a statement. Hertha said they had suspended the 34-year-old Ivory Coast international “with immediate effect”. Kalou, who won the Premier League with the Blues in 2010, apologised for his actions and said he should have known better because of his involvement in health projects in his homeland. “I am sorry if my behaviour has given the impression that I do not take Corona seriously. I would like to apologise for this,” he said. “The opposite is true, because I am particularly concerned about the people in Africa, because the medical care there is by far not as good as in Germany. “I did not really think about it.” The Bundesliga, which is aiming to restart its season from May 16, said on Monday mass testing of players and backroom staff had produced 10 positive results. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. AC Milan coach Vincenzo Montella was fuming Sunday as he claimed captain Leonardo Bonucci was sent off with a first "made for television" red card using the video assistant referee in Serie A. October 22, 2017 In "News" Bayern Munich can expect to be without veteran winger Franck Ribery for up to three months with Sky reporting on Monday he has torn a knee ligament. October 2, 2017 In "News" Bayern Munich travel to Stuttgart on Saturday for their final match before the Bundesliga's winter break with a nine-point lead and on a run of 13 wins in 14 games in all competitions. December 15, 2017 In "News"