The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, Tuesday advised Biafrans to dedicate three days to pray for her fallen heroes. Kanu who disclosed this in a statement sent to Vanguard by the groups publicity scretary, Emma Powerful, said this years Biafra day would start with prayers and end with prayers. He said there would be no sit-at home, noting that people have stayed longer at home during the coronavirus lockdown. “IPOB wouldn’t like to  bother people with another lockdown in form of sit-at home”, he said. The statement reads, “We, the global and indefatigable family of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the  prophet and liberator of our time, wish to announce to the people of Biafra, friends of Biafra, enemies of  Biafra, lovers of freedom, as well as the  world that Biafrans will remember and commemorate our fallen heroes and heroines who made the supreme sacrifice for us to live , on 30th of May 2020. “After much consideration and deliberations IPOB high command decided to urge Biafrans both home and in the diaspora,  to observe this year’s rememberance and celebration of our brothers and sisters who were killed and starved to death during the genocidal war on the peaceful land of Biafra by Nigeria government and her foreign allies including Britian,  Egypt, USSR and Czechs Republic between 1967 and 1970, through fasting and prayers. The programme for this year’s event, will last for three days from 27th to  30th of May, 2020. “This year’s episode and event will start with prayers and end with prayers. There will also be  candle processions at every state, LGA, ward and  church in our land. It is very imperative that our people observe these great days for those who paid ultimate price and sacrificed their youthful lives for our own lives to be today. This great event will start on 27th and end on 30th of May. “There won’t be  any sit- at -home or indoors because our people stayed much days at home during the coronavirus lockdown. IPOB wouldn’t like to  bother  people with another lockdown in form of sit-at -home. “This year’s anniversary will begin with reading of  Psalms of David from chapter 1 to the last chapter. Every individual and group(s) should  observe this year”s prayer designed to remember our fallen heroes and heroines who paid the  ultimate price for our living. “Nigeria government and her partners in crime decided to wipe out the whole race but God Almighty in Heaven, ‘Chukwu Okike Abiama’ said no to that through these our brethren who sacrificed their lives for us to live. “Therefore, IPOB families and Biafrans across countries of the world are encouraged to use this year’s anniversary to pray for all our fallen heroes including all those who were killed by the overzealous Nigeria security personnel in the course of the renewed quest to restore Biafra. “We shall also use this year’s event to pray for divine protection of all Biafrans everywhere on the surface of the earth against the covid-19 pandemic ravaging the world. We shall also pray for the speedy recovery of all those infected with the scourge, and for immediate end of the global pandemic. Vanguard