Nigerian music sensation, Habeeb Opeyemi Kazeem, widely known and referred to as CaZe Montana, has said despite his current status as a successful artiste, he was never born into a rich family. Speaking with reporters in Lagos, CaZe also gave insight into his background and his record label. CaZe Montana said: “First of all, let me clarify; because I know a lot of people will say he is from a rich home, he is this or that. Forget all these flashy things you are seeing now. “Although my parents are not poor, I was born into a middle-class family. I wasn’t born with a silver spoon. “I was born and raised in Lagos. I run FMINC Entertainment Company, which is also based in Lagos.” On his inspiration and kind of music: “I am very versatile, but my sounds can be described as Afro Mix. I draw my inspiration from sound and energy around. “I am the new phase of Nigerian music. I have got everything it takes to make my music a global entity,” he boasted. CaZe Montana, who was born in the 80s, currently has two new singles— “Sonto” and “Lowo Freetyle”— which are fast becoming a national anthem in Nigeria. He has worked with big Nigerian stars, which include Olamide, DJ Maphorisa, Orezi, Skibbi, Mystro, Sarz, Phellz and many more. Having had his primary school in Lagos, CaZe Montana moved to Federal Government Collage in Ondo State for his higher education. He proceeded to Kuala Lumpur Metropolitan University in Malaysia, where he obtained a degree in Multimedia, before deciding to pursue his musical career. He once performed at one of the biggest clubs in Malaysia, 1145. After an amazing reception, CaZe moved on to dominate the club scene in Asia, having numerous one-man shows across the popular clubs. According to CaZe Montana, the Executive Director of Fresh Movement Inc, his dream is to own one of Africa’s top entertainment company, so as to enable more African talents to flourish through the platform on an international spectrum. Vanguard Rising Nigerian music sensation, Anyas has described his love for music as natural and an inborn thing. The Lagos State-born star, while giving a brief background to his sojourn into the very competitive Nigerian music market and how long he has been in the game, said: "For me music is a… March 26, 2020 In "News" Hewas an underground artiste before destiny brought him and Wizkid together. But today,  fast rising pop star,  and Star Boy artiste, Damilola Afolabi popularly known as L.A.X  whose first official single, “Ginger” featuring himself and Wizkid has become a club banger recently opened up to Showtime Celebrity, on how he… December 12, 2014 In "Entertainment" At first sight, one is likely to assume that Ikenna is a musical artist. Little would you imagine that he is a trained civil engineer but with a strong passion for branding and advertising. He walked into the Vanguard office to share what makes his life tick with Saturday Youthful… December 31, 2011 In "Youthful Vibes"