James Kolo, President Muhammadu Buhari’s nominee for Federal Character Commission, FEC, job is dead. The Kwara state born, reportedly died in the early hours of Tuesday, after a brief illness. Disclosing this, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, governor of Kwara, according to TheCable commiserated with the Edu community and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state over the sudden death of Kolo. AbdulRazaq described Kolo as a loyal party man and a team player whose death was a great loss to his family, the people of Edu local government and the entire state. “We are devastated by the death of Mr. Kolo after recently falling ill. He was a staunch party man and a bridge builder, who worked hard alongside other patriots for the success of the APC in the state,” he said. “We are consoled by the fact that he was a good man who got along with everybody that crossed his path. Many knew him for being a generous person. “We commiserate with his family and pray to the Almighty God to comfort them and rest his gentle soul.” Buhari nominated him Kwara commissioner-designate in the Federal Character Commission. Vanguard By Demola Akinyemi, Ilorin A Commissioner Designate of Federal Character Commission (FCC) from Kwara state Mr James Kolo died Tuesday morning in his Ilorin home. His remains had since been deposited at the mortuary of University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital. Vanguard reliably gathered that Mr Kolo who had appeared before… May 19, 2020 In "News" After appointing six dead persons in 2017, namely, Francis Okpozo, a senator in the second republic; Donald Ugbaja, a retired deputy inspector-general of police;  Ahmed Bunza, sole administrator of Jega local government area of Kebbi state, Christopher Utov, a former proprietor of Fidei Polytechnic, Gboko; and Kabir Umar, a former… April 30, 2020 In "News" By Demola Akinyemi During the 100 days anniversary breakfast meeting with journalists in Kwara State inside the expansive hall of Kwara hotels, Governor Abdulrazaq Abdulrahman among others drops the hint that the much-expected cabinet list would be unveiled the following week. But contrary to the expectations of keen watchers of… September 21, 2019 In "Features"