Busty Nollywood actress, Mandy Ujunwa Obi is as desirable as any woman could be in terms of frontal endowment. But if you are looking for secret relationship you may be on a wrong page with the ebony bombshell of lusciousness from Nnewi, Anambra State. Bale ‘definitely interested’ in playing in Major League Soccer https://t.co/lj9QutdxRY #vanguardnews pic.twitter.com/zC5vC6r3mF — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) May 1, 2020  In a recent post on Instagram, she expressed her opinion about secret relationship. She writes, “ A secret relationship is a fraud. Any man that loves you will never hide you my sister. One of the respondents to the post is a colleague of hers in the mammary section, known on Instagram as @Noradosh and she was quick to give the younger Mandy her own piece of mind. “And a public relationship ain’t good either my sister” she had said. Mandy Ujunwa was a makeup artist before becoming an actress and her first movie was an Igbo movie “Obi Ngbawa” in 2016. She has featured in movies like Angry Mother, Odida Kingdom, The Little Prince, and some Igbo movies like Ajondu, Onye-Nna, Dimona etc. VANGUARD Not many girls have what it takes  to succeed in the movie industry which offers no one easy stepping stones to success. It is a cruel and lonely world that gives no answer to life’s many questions unless you are ready to pay the price. November 11, 2018 In "Entertainment" By Ayo Onikoyi Every 14th of February is recognized worldwide as what is called 'Lovers Day' otherwise known as St. Valentine's Day but for upcoming Nollywood actress, Ujunwa Mandy Obi, the day has become nothing but one to express lust and just to satisfy sexual yearnings. Fela and his white… February 15, 2020 In "Entertainment" Since the advent of Instagram a lot of people who, ordinarily would have remained unknown have become stars of sort overnight. But as much as the social media platform presents many opportunities, contents have been the major driving force. January 11, 2020 In "Entertainment"