As the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, celebrates and honors its fallen heroes and heroines, many Nigerians of Igbo extraction, Saturday took to the micro-blogging sites, (twitter and facebook) to pen down stories that touches the heart. The 48 year-old, former Minister of Aviation, Osita Chidoka, was not left out, as he enlightened Nigerians with his father’s words of wisdom. Read below: “My father is 93 years old and lived through Biafra as a middle aged man. He suffered loss of family members, abandoned properties as he lived in Port Harcourt. He never quite recovered from the War. Whenever he visited me in Abuja, he gave me the same advice. “His advice always struck me as the effect of trauma, untreated. Interestingly, refusal to discuss Biafra and resolve the trauma has led to a generation who did not experience the war, taking the lead on the conversation. This generation leading the conversation has its implications for the nation. “Time to openly, truthfully and peacefully have the conversation is now, before those who experienced the war, all leave the stage. Please join the Centre For Memories for a discussion on Onye Aghala Nwanneya”. Vanguard THE Indigenous People of Biafra, IPoB, the Movement for Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, and a coalition of pro-Biafran groups working on restoration of a sovereign republic of Biafra, have said they will all ignore the military buildup and intimidating clampdown on Biafra agitators to mark the May… May 26, 2019 In "News" A former Minister of Aviation, Chief Osita Chidoka has condemned the attack on the immediate past Deputy Senate President of Nigeria, Senator Ike Ekweremadu in Germany, Saturday by miscreants saying ‪'I demand an apology by perpetrators of this unwarranted attack on Senator Ike Ekweremadu. I condemn it.‬"' August 18, 2019 In "News" INDIGENOUS People of Biafra, IPOB, yesterday asked the federal government to stop what it called the ongoing witch hunt against former Aviation Minister, Chief Osita Chidoka and Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe representing Abia South in the senate, who both stood surety for the embattled IPOB leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. April 27, 2018 In "News"