Arsenal aren’t willing to meet Barcelona’s demands for Philippe Coutinho despite their interest in the player, according to reports. The playmaker – currently on loan at Bayern Munich – is set to leave Barcelona in the summer, and a number of English clubs are thought to be interested. Manchester United, Arsenal, Chelsea and Spurs have all been linked with a move for the Brazil international. Most recently, a report claimed that Mikel Arteta ‘dreams’ of bringing Coutinho to Arsenal with the Spaniard keen to ‘make him his master at playing’. This came from Le10Sport, who added that such a ‘very expensive’ deal would prove to be ‘a complex case’ for Arsenal. And now ESPN claims that Barcelona are keen to recoup ‘more than half the £142m’ that they paid Liverpool for Coutinho’s services in 2018. Arsenal would probably be more interested in a loan deal but Barca wants‘ any loan agreement to include a fee of around £10m’ with all of his huge £250k a week wages to be covered too. The Gunners along with Manchester United ‘have been offered’ Coutinho but Arsenal and rivals Tottenham would have a ‘significant problem’ paying his wages – but the report describes Chelsea as being in a ‘better position’. However, ESPN rounded off by saying that ‘no club is ready to accept Barca’s terms’ so the Catalan giants might be forced into a rethink. Football 365 Vanguard Liverpool will receive a further payment from Barcelona after the Spanish giants decided to keep Philippe Coutinho, according to reports. Spanish publication Sport claimed last week that Coutinho is ‘keen’ to come back to England and Chelsea ‘are working on building a team’ to challenge Liverpool and Manchester City.… May 1, 2020 In "Sports" Barcelona and Philippe Coutinho’s entourage have finally accepted there is no way the Brazilian is leaving Liverpool this summer, according to  Sky Sports’  Spanish football expert Guillem Balague. September 2, 2017 In "News" Liverpool players jetted out to Dubai today, leaving their playmaker Philippe Coutinho behind as his reported transfer deal to Barcelona hit $192million. January 6, 2018 In "News"