Following unending inquiries on the status of essential workers in respect of the due enforcement of the national curfew and inter-state movement restriction orders emplaced by the Federal Government, it has become necessary to clear all ambiguity on the position of the Nigeria Police Force especially as it relates to persons on essential duties. The Force wishes to state that it is not oblivious of the sensitive, indispensable, patriotic and frontline role of the nation’s workforce that falls within the category of Essential Service Providers particularly as it relates to efforts to curtail and contain the COVID-19 pandemic. To this effect, all essential workers including medical personnel, ambulance service providers, journalists, fire-fighters, etc remain exempted from the movement restriction orders as well as the national curfew. Consequently, the Inspector General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni has directed Zonal Assistant Inspectors-General of Police and State Command Commissioners of Police to give maximum effect to these orders and extend due courtesies to essential service providers so affected and also ensure that personnel deployed for the enforcement duties respect the fundamental rights of the citizens. Meanwhile, the IGP enjoins all workers who fall within these categories not to take undue advantage of their positions and privileges to advance other purposes not connected with the performance of their duties within the stated period. Vanguard The Inspector-General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu, has reversed the order restricting movement of essential services providers, following the COVID-19 lockdown. On Tuesday, after a virtual meeting, the Inspector-General had directed strict enforcement of inter-state movement restriction and the provisions of the curfew. ALSO READ: Journalists, doctors, other essential workers… May 20, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" …demand written statement on status of essential workers from police By Chioma Obinna The Lagos State branch of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA has directed doctors in state to proceed on an indefinite sit-at-home order to protest what they described as ‘conflicting directives by the government and incessant police harassment’… May 20, 2020 In "Health" …. Demands written statement on the status of essential workers from police By Chioma Obinna The Lagos State branch of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA has directed doctors in Lagos to proceed on an indefinite sit-at-home order to protest what they described as ‘conflicting directives by the government and incessant… May 20, 2020 In "News"