Tottenham manager Jose Mourinho says he is “desperate” for the return of Premier League action despite mounting concerns about the English top-flight’s restart plans. Several stars including Sergio Aguero, Raheem Sterling and Danny Rose have gone public with fears about resuming the season during the coronavirus crisis. Some top-flight bosses are also understood to have expressed concerns about the plan to play from mid-June when they spoke during a League Managers Association meeting on Wednesday. But Mourinho said he would relish the chance to get back to work despite the challenges and risks posed by the pandemic. “I have not asked for any delay,” Mourinho said in a statement on Thursday. “I want to train, and I am desperate for the Premier League to return as soon as it is safe to do so, particularly now we are seeing other leagues preparing to return to action.” Mourinho was forced to apologise in April after being spotted breaking lockdown restrictions to hold a training session with midfielder Tanguy Ndombele in a public park. Serge Aurier and Moussa Sissoko also had to say sorry after the Tottenham pair flouted social-distancing guidelines to train together. Despite those incidents, Mourinho is happy with the way his squad have kept themselves fit during the lockdown. “I am extremely proud of the way my players have maintained their fitness,” he said. “They have shown great professionalism, passion and dedication. “We have all been working extremely hard through remote squad training sessions and isolated running now the pitches are available to use again at the training centre. “Every player has been extremely committed in terms of their individual work and now we wait for clearance to commence working in small groups again, which I will fully support.” VANGUARD Tottenham manager Jose Mourinho believes bringing football back, even behind closed doors, would be a much-needed morale boost for fans starved of action during the coronavirus crisis. No Premier League games have been played since March 9 due to the pandemic, which has claimed more than 26,000 British lives. Dutch… April 30, 2020 In "Sports" Jose Mourinho has confirmed Wayne Rooney will remain at Manchester United for the rest of the season despite reports linking him with a move to the Chinese Super League. January 31, 2017 In "Sports" LONDON (AFP) - A more cautious Jose Mourinho transformed himself into "the Happy One" on Monday as he faced the media for the first time since he began his second spell as manager of Premier League giants Chelsea. June 10, 2013 In "Sports"