Like a man on a mission, On-Air-Personality (OAP), Daddy Freeze may have taken it upon himself to criticize most of the present-day Christian practices that he feels are unscriptural. From criticizing the payment of tithes to pastors buying private jets, Daddy Freeze never stops baring out his mind on some church practices. This time around, he has a few words to say against the practices of infant baptism and the usage of the holy water. He aired his opinion on his official Instagram page. “Both holy water and infant baptism are unscriptural and they are simply the ideas of men that are marketed as commands from God. Baptism in the scripture always has the prerequisite of repentance and faith, which are impossible for an infant.” He spoke concerning infant baptism. On the usage of the holy water, Freeze wrote “The concept of holy water was largely based on an old testament command that the Jews followed. Christ himself didn’t agree with their practices, which led to conflicts with the Jewish leaders.” VANGUARD DAYS after this year’s Christmas—-a day set aside to mark the birth of the progenitor of the Christian faith—-the debate over the actual date of birth of Jesus Christ rages on as the General Overseer, Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM), Dr. Daniel Olukoya, said the celebration is unbiblical. December 29, 2019 In "Worship" The Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye and controversial On Air Personality, Ifedayo Lucian Olarinde, popularly known as Daddy Freeze, have spoken over the involvement of an ordained Pentecostal pastor in sex-for-favour scandal currently rocking two foremost universities in West Africa—-the University of Lagos in Nigeria (UNILAG)… October 13, 2019 In "News" ADELE Adaeze Oni Anyasi was born on October 27, 2016. On Saturday, December 17, 2016, her parents, Mr. & Mrs. Andrew Osita Anyasi of Aniocha North and Ughelli North local governments of Delta State, in recognition of the importance of baptism as one of God's great gifts to mankind, joined… December 24, 2016 In "Worship"