Ahead of Monday’s 8 pm to 6 am curfew imposed by the Federal Government across the country, the police in Ogun have vowed to be more aggressive in enforcing the order. Mr. Abimbola Oyeyemi, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, said this in a statement issued in Abeokuta on Sunday. Oyeyemi appealed to members of the public to adhere strictly to the movement restriction, saying that the command in collaboration with other sister agencies would enforce the Federal Government’s order accordingly. He explained that all human and vehicular movements would not be allowed during the period and anybody found violating the order would be made to face the full wrath of the law. “Any vehicle or motorcycle found to be violating the curfew will be impounded and the owner will be prosecuted in accordance with the provisions of the law. “The command hereby appeals to those driving vehicles supplying foods and other essential things to remain wherever they maybe once it is 8 pm and continue their journey the following day or risk their vehicles being impounded,” he said. Oyeyemi commended the people of the state for their endurance since the beginning of the pandemic and for cooperating with security agents. “It is expected that the same sense of maturity will be displayed as the curfew begins,” he said. vanguard The police in Ogun State have vowed to be more aggressive in enforcing the order ahead of Monday’s 8 pm to 6 am curfew imposed by the Federal Government across the country, Mr Abimbola Oyeyemi, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, said this in a statement issued in… May 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Ogun State police command on Sunday vowed to be more aggressive in enforcing the nationwide curfew imposed by the Federal Government in the state. The Command Spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a statement issued in Abeokuta appealed to members of the public to adhere strictly to the movement restriction. He… May 3, 2020 In "News" The police in Kaduna arrested 165 persons for not adhering to the sit at home order of the state government. The government had imposed curfew on the state as part of measures to prevent the spread of COVID 19. March 30, 2020 In "News"