The Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr Patrick Okundia, has said the state is making steady progress in the management of coronavirus (COVID-19), noting that all active cases of COVID-19 are being managed at different isolations centres across the state and are responding well to treatment. Speaking to journalists in Benin City, Okundia said Edo has discharged ten persons who have tested negative twice to the virus and exited another 491 persons, comprising 111 persons of interest (POIs) and 380 line-listed contacts, who have completed the compulsory 14-day follow up and tested negative. The commissioner noted that from the onset of the outbreak, Edo State has recorded a total of 593 suspected cases of COVID-19 and 65 confirmed cases spread across nine Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state, including Oredo, Esan West, Egor, Ovia North East, Ikpoba-Okha, Uhunmwode, Etsako Central, Esan South East, and Akoko-Edo. Okundia, however, reassured that the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led state government remains committed to containing the COVID-19 pandemic in all communities across the state. According to him, “While Edo has recorded 65 confirmed cases of COVID-19, we have discharged ten patients who tested negative twice for the virus. The remaining cases are still on active treatment and are responding well to treatment. “Three of the cases are receiving treatment and follow up at home while 33 are presently at Stella Obasanjo Hospital Isolation Centre (SOHIC) Benin, four at University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) Benin City and three at Irrua Specialist Hospital (ISTH). “As we ramp up efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic in Edo State, it is pertinent to note that compliance with the government’s stay-at-home and social distancing directives, as well as other precautionary measures, are non-negotiable in the fight against the spread of the virus. “Wash your hands regularly with soap under running water, use alcohol-based sanitisers, and try to get screened at any of our centres across the state. If you must go out, wear facemasks and avoid large gathering of persons.” Vanguard Cases rise to 29, as state draws up database of vulnerable persons for relief package The Edo State Government has set up five additional screening centres across land borders with Ondo, Delta and Kogi States, to check the importation of coronavirus (COVID-19) into the state. Deputy Governor and Chairman, Edo… April 28, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr Patrick Okundia has disclosed that the newly built, ultra-modern Stella Obasanjo Hospital Isolation Center (SOHIC) is ready to receive cases of COVID-19 in the state. In a chat with journalists in Benin City, the commissioner said health workers and other medical personnel have… April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Develops economic stimulus package for vulnerable persons The Edo State Government has ordered the evacuation of patients from the Stella Obasanjo Hospital, converting the facility into a full-blown holding and isolation centre to manage different stages of cases of coronavirus (COVID-19). The Deputy Governor of Edo State and Chairman, Technical… March 27, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"