Manchester United have been handed in a boost in their bid to extend Odion Ighalo’s loan deal at the club, with Shanghai Shenhua softening their stance over the Nigerian’s return. The former Watford striker’s initial deal, which was agreed in January, is set to expire this weekend and the two clubs will have to move fast if they’re to reach an agreement. However, ESPN report that the Red Devils have been handed a boost in negotiations, with the Chinese club seemingly more willing to authorise an extension. United are keen to keep the forward for the remainder of the campaign but have insisted ‘”the ball’s in Shanghai’s court” with the Chinese Super League outfit wanting Ighalo back for the start of their domestic campaign next month. The player, meanwhile, has pleaded with Shenhua to extend his current loan deal at his ‘dream club’. He’s said to be desperate to finish off the current campaign at Old Trafford, as United go about securing a Champions League spot and chasing silverware in the FA Cup and Europa League. And with any CSL players who are currently overseas reportedly not being permitted to return to China until October in a bid to prevent a second wave of the coronavirus, it makes sense for Shanghai to sanction Ighalo’s extended stay in Manchester. Despite the ‘panic buy’ feel to the 30-year-old’s deal back in January, the Nigerian has proven to be ample cover for Anthony Martial up top; scoring four times in eight games prior to the suspension. Fotmob Vanguard Manchester United want to extend Odion Ighalo’s loan deal, with the Premier League side currently set to lose the striker before the season resumes. Ighalo’s loan stay at Old Trafford expires at the end of May, when he is scheduled to return to Chinese Super League club Shanghai Shenhua. The… May 8, 2020 In "Sports" Shanghai Shenhua striker Odion Ighalo is “very close” to an agreement with Man Utd, according to the player’s agent. Ighalo made his shock deadline-day switch from Shanghai Shenhua in January and the ex-Watford striker has impressed the Old Trafford faithful. The 30-year-old has scored four goals in three starts for… May 28, 2020 In "Sports" Odion Ighalo hopes his loan deal at Manchester United is extended until the Premier League season is completed. The former Super Eagles striker, 30, moved from Chinese side Shanghai Shenhua in January and has a contract until May 31. United has not made any offer of loan extension or permanent… May 10, 2020 In "Sports"