NASARAWA State government said it has recorded another 13 cases of COVID-19 bringing the total cases reported in the state to 25. The state Governor, Abdullahi Sule, who announced this during a review of the Covid19 activities in government House Lafia Friday said out of the 78 results from the samples taken by NCDC. He said four out of the 13 positive cases are those who contact with the Assemblymember who died of the virus while the nine were the returnees at the quarantined centre in Lafia. Governor Sule explained that four of the cases recorded came from Nasarawa local government as a result of their contact with the deceased Lawmaker. According to governor Sule, “cases coming out of the state should be a cause for worry for everyone.” The governor, however, announced the extension of lockdown in Nasarawa local government following the contact tracing currently going on at the local government. He appealed to the people to embrace all the rules by observing social distancing, wash their hand regularly, Vanguard Gov. Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State on Sunday in Lafia announced the closure of the state’s House of Assembly following the death of a lawmaker as a result of COVID-19. Sule, while briefing newsmen, said the closure would enable the state government trace all the contacts the dead lawmaker had… May 3, 2020 In "News" By David Royal Governor Abdullahi Sule, on Tuesday, announced in a press briefing that Nasarawa has recorded its first coronavirus case. He said that five tests were conducted, four came back negative with one positive. “It is sad to announce that Nasarawa has recorded the first case from this lady… April 28, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By David Odama NO fewer than 200 travellers and returnee almajirai quarantined at the state Polytechnic in Lafia, Sunday protested over alleged poor feeding and neglect by the state government. The protesters who were carrying sticks and iron were those incepted coming into the state from states high risks with… May 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"