Kaduna State Government has re-adjusted the two-day window of the restriction of movement order, to allow residents to visit neighbourhood markets to purchase food and other essentials. A statement by the Managing Director of Kaduna Markets Development and Management Company(KMDMC), Muhammad Hafiz Bayero on Sunday, said that Wednesdays and Thursdays are now the two-day window which the restriction of movement will be relaxed. ‘’Residents will be free to visit their neighbourhood markets on 20th and 21st May 2020 to purchase food and other essential items. This adjustment means that no market will be open next Saturday,’’ he clarified. Muhammad said that the temporary neighbourhood markets are to operate from 10am to 4pm on the two days on which the restriction of movement is relaxed. KMDMC appealed ‘’for compliance with this guideline, and other conditions including the need to wear facemasks and submit to temperature checks before entering the markets,’’ he said, adding that physical distancing and other public health protocols should be complied with. The Managing Director promised that KMDMC ‘’will make all the necessary arrangements for the orderly and safe conduct of trading activities at all the designated temporary neighbourhood markets.’’ The statement commended the orderly and mature attitude of the traders and customers that are making the neighbourhood markets work as safe spaces for getting essentials, adding that trading activities went smoothly in 40 of the 46 temporary markets last Saturday. ‘’However, the company warned those traders that are trying to turn the streets near the closed main markets into illegal shops to desist,’’ the statement added. Vanguard News Nigeria The Kaduna State Government has said that all residents were expected to wear face masks in public so as to reinforce the mandatory social distancing. April 21, 2020 In "Health" The Kaduna State Government might have lost about N6 billion from Internally Generated Revenue,IGR, due to the current lockdown order. May 4, 2020 In "News" Kaduna State Governor , Nasir El-Rufai has extended the quarantine orders being enforced in the state for another 30 days. April 26, 2020 In "News"