As Muslim faithful observe Eid El Fitr Sallah celebrations across the world today, Chairman, Senate Committee on Establishment and Public Services, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau, All Progressives Congress, APC,  Kano Central has urged  Nigerians and Muslim  Ummah not to relent in praying for our country, Nigeria especially to nip in the bud, the Coronavirus, COVID- 19 Pandemic. In a goodwill message he personally signed, the former Kano State governor while felicitating with Muslims on Eid El Fitr,  however, congratulated them for successfully completing the 30 days fasting. Senator Shekarau who noted that though this year’s Eid-el- Fitr celebration came at a unique time that most Muslims may not enjoy the festivities due to the presence of Coronavirus worldwide, said that it should be considered as part of the sacrifice to be made in helping various governments fight the pandemic which has crippled both social and economic activities globally. He said, “We should not relent in our prayers for the Almighty to bring to an end soon the scourge of this pandemic. “I am optimistic about the policies put in place by the government and strict adherence of the various safety and protective measures as spelt out by the Presidential Task Force on COVID 19, the end of this pandemic is in sight. “We pray for soul of all those who has lost their loved ones during this period and wish all Muslims faithful a hitch-free Sallah.” vanguard As Muslim faithful observe Eid El Fitr Sallah celebrations across the world today, Chairman, Senate Committee on Establishment and Public Services, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau, All Progressives Congress, APC,  Kano Central has urged  Nigerians and Muslim  Ummah not to relent in praying  for our country, Nigeria especially  to nip in the… May 23, 2020 In "News" By Henry Umoru - Abuja As Muslims in Nigeria join the rest of the world to mark this year's Eid-el-Fitr, President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan has urged the Muslim Ummah to continue praying for our country, Nigeria. In the same vein, former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator… May 23, 2020 In "News" SPEAKER of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori has urged Muslim faithful to use the celebration of the Eid-el-Fitr to build a relationship of friendship and harmony with fellow citizens of other faith. May 23, 2020 In "News"