The management of the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Idi Aba, Abeokuta on Friday night confirmed two new cases of coronavirus. This was contained in a statement by the FMC Abeokuta, Public Relations Officer of the hospital, Segun Orisajo and made available to newsmen in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The statement read, “I wish to confirm to you that the Centre this evening recorded two cases of patients who tested positive for corona virus”. “On presentation in the Centre yesterday, there were suspicions based on the obvious manifestation of COVID-19 symptoms which made the management to isolate them”. “Their test results returned this evening and confirmed their positive status”, Orisajo said. He added that arrangements are already in progress to transfer them to government designated isolation centre. Orisajo noted that the hospital recently received a consignment of personal protective equipment from NCDC, stressing that all the health personnel that attended to them were adequately kitted. He said, ” the centre is calm and no cause for alarm”. Vanguard News Nigeria. James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta Palpable fear on Saturday enveloped the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Idi Aba, Abeokuta, Ogun State as a pregnant woman reportedly died from coronavirus complications at the hospital. It was gathered that the deceased, who was tested for COVID-19 alongside two others - a male and a… May 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta, has confirmed the death a pregnant woman in the facility as a result of contracting coronavirus. The Head of Clinical Services (HCS) of the hospital, Dr Fidelis Ojeblenu, made this known in a statement issued on Sunday in Abeokuta. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)… May 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta, on Sunday confirmed that a pregnant woman has died of COVID-19 in the facility. The Head of Clinical Services at the hospital, Dr. Fidelis Ojeblenu, disclosed this in a statement in Abeokuta. Ojeblenu said two patients, a man, and the expectant mother, had tested positive… May 3, 2020 In "News"