The joint Admissions and Ma­triculation Board (JAMB) has made an interim remit­tance of N3.5 billion to the Federal Government con­solidated revenue account. A statement by Dr Fabi­an Benjamin, JAMB’s Head of Media in Abu­ja, explained that the remittance was in line with Prof. Ishaq Oloyede’s avowed commitment to remit wholly, excess funds generated from its operations to the Federal Government. According to JAMB, a payment of over N3.5 bil­lion had already been made to candidates by way of reduction of N1,500 from the cost of each ePIN sold to each candidate as directed by Presiden Muhammadu Buhari. “This brings the total remittances this year to over N7 billion with the assurance to remit more as soon as its operations are concluded and proper audit of its books done. “From the outset, it had been the intention of the present leadership of the Board to return to federal coffers, whatever is left unutilised from its operational imperatives. “The immediate benefit of the move manifested in the reduction by President Buhari of the UTME Registration fee payable by candidates from N5000 to N3,500 which entails the transfer of over N3 billion to candidates and guardians annually via the reduction in the cost of application documents,” he said. Benjamin added that before the reduction in the cost of application EPINs, the Board had remitted over N7 billion in 2017 and replicated same in subsequent years. He said that this could be attributed to the gracious action by the Buhari administration’s unprecedented decision to give back to candidates a percentage of the cost of registration. “To sustain the gesture, the Board will continue to come up with innovations on ways to ensure that candidates are provided with world-class services at modest cost as obtained anywhere in the world,” he said. Vanguard By Joseph Erunke - Abuja The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB, said it has made an interim remittance of N3.5 billion to the federal government consolidated account for the 2020 expected remittance. The development, according to the board, in a statement Sunday evening through its Head of Media, Dr… May 4, 2020 In "Education" Promises additional remittance in the year By Joseph Erunke THE Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB, said it has made an interim remittance of N3.5 billion to the federal government consolidated account for the 2020 expected remittance. The development, according to the board, in a statement Sunday evening through its… May 3, 2020 In "Education" Ask MTN to produce evidence of remittances, transactions since 2011 By Levinus Nwabughiogu - Abuja House of Representatives on Thursday, placed the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) on full financial status inquiry from 2011 to 2015. The House also threatened to deduct from source billions of Naira from the… February 27, 2020 In "News"