The Federal Government would need to significantly increase its expenditure and mobilise about $40 billion to stimulate the Nigerian economy and bailout small and big businesses. This would prevent the country’s economy from plunging deeper into recession, according to Chijioke Nwaozuzu,  Professor of Petroleum Economics, Management & Policy. In an interview with Vanguard in Abuja, yesterday, Nwaozuzu, who is also  Director, Emerald Energy Institute of the University of Port Harcourt,  however, noted that the major challenge confronting the government would be how to mobilise the $40 billion needed to stimulate the economy and carry out the bailout programme. Nwaozuzu said that it was crucial the Federal Government increase its expenditure during this period, adding that the main focus of government’s intervention should be on Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs). According to him, most of the MSMEs would have consumed their capital by now, going by the prolonged lockdown and with the shutdown of economic activities within the period of the lockdown induced by the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. He identified the other sectors that would need bailout to include banks, telecommunication companies, power distribution companies, (DISCO) and airlines, while he noted that Nigeria’s situation is worsened by the absence of a stabilisation fund and the fact that it failed to save during the period of high crude oil prices. He said, “To address the issues of achievable level of recession and stimulus measures that could help reduce the Covid-19 induced recession, we have to examine some fundamental macro-economic relationships.” He warned that during this circumstance, GDP growth rate would hit below zero, which is negative GDP, and result in economic recession. Contrary to the projections of the World Bank that pegged the Gross Domestic Product growth rate at 3.7 per cent, the Federal Government economic agenda as contained in the 2016 budget breakdown insisted on GDP growth rate of 4.37 per cent thus making it ambitious. Earlier this year IMF cut… December 29, 2015 In "Headlines" INSPITE of the dwindling economic fortunes of the country and projected drop in revenue accruals from the Federation Account the cumulative financial figures of state governments has shown that about 12 states have effected huge increases in expenditure totalling N697 billion in their 2016 budget with economy experts saying they… January 6, 2016 In "News" DISMAYED by the steady decline of Nigeria’s economy and its disturbing impact on Nigerians, the Federal Government yesterday said that plans have been concluded to inject N350 billion into the economy next week in order to stimulate economic activities. It also noted that the process of obtaining $1 billion Eurobond… September 17, 2016 In "News"