The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, has commended the Divisional Crime Officer II, Eruwa Police Division, ASP Adeyemo Ogunyemi, for his uncommon restraint and professionalism in the face of unprovoked attack as shown in a viral video where a woman identified as Kehinde Afolake was seen assaulting him unchallenged and without retaliation, while he was carrying out the COVID-19 enforcement duties at Gbolagunte, Okeola area of Eruwa, Ibarapa, Oyo State on 1st May 2020. “The officer, like a lamb being led to the slaughter, did not fight back but rather, maintained absolute calm, patience and decorum even as the woman rough handled him and slapped him severally”, he said. This is just as the IGP disclosed that a total of 27 other Police Officers have been attacked in various parts of the country for carrying out their constitutional duties of Enforcing the Covid 19 lockdown to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus. Speaking through the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, the IGP said, “The said woman also assaulted two female police officers, Inspr. Ojola Abiola and Inspr. Queen Eguaoje and gave one of the human bites on Saturday, 2nd May 2020 during an attempt to invite her to the Police Station for the earlier incident of serious assault on the DCO. “The Ewura incident thus is a classic example of unprovoked, unwarranted and unnecessary attacks faced by police officers in the course of performing their legitimate duties. The IGP, therefore, warns that this trend will no longer be tolerated by the Force. ‘The IGP notes that since the commencement of the COVID-19 enforcement duties, a total of 27 police personnel have suffered a series of attacks and assaults from members of the public at different times and different locations. “Many of these officers, he reiterates are still in hospitals receiving treatment from the injuries sustained during such attacks. “These include a female police officer, PC Ngozi Nkem, in Agbor, Delta State who was seriously assaulted when a police team was dispersing a group of persons holding a birthday party in clear disobedience to the social restrictions and distancing orders. “Apart from the attack on the person of police officers, some of these citizens have equally carried out attacks on police assets and facilities. For example, two (2) police stations and police quarters were attacked and burnt down in Katsina and Abia States while fifteen (15) police vehicles/motorcycles were also damaged”. Meanwhile, the IGP has directed the Commissioner of Police, Oyo Command to carry out a discreet investigation into the Ewura attack on the police officers and ensure that justice is done. The IGP enjoins the citizens to continue to cooperate with the police and other security personnel and voluntarily comply with all COVID-19 prevention orders. He reiterates that the Force shall continue to hold officers accountable and mete out commensurate punishments on any personnel who violate the rights of the citizens. He, however, warns against any unprovoked attack and assault on police officers while in the course of their duties as perpetrators will be made to face the full wrath of the law. Vanguard abuja—The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, yesterday warned that the police would continue strict enforcement of the lockdown ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari in the Federal Capital Territory, Lagos and Ogun states at Easter to check the spread of coronavirus, otherwise known as COVID-19. April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Orders tight security around vulnerable targets By Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Abubakar Adamu has cautioned officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force currently deployed for the enforcement of the lockdown and social restriction orders to ensure that the rights of Nigerians are not… April 2, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Muhammed Adamu, has condemned what he described as "The apparent unprofessionalism and highhandedness exhibited by the Police officers as shown in a trending video on social media while trying to ensure total compliance to the lockdown order by the state government". March 28, 2020 In "News"