Former WBA International, British and Commonwealth Light Heavy Weight boxing champion, Peter Oboh, has urged Nigerians to continue to strictly observe the measures put in place by the Federal Government to control further spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Oboh gave the advice in reaction to the recent demolition of Prodent Hotel in Port-Harcourt by Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State for flouting lockdown rules. The ex-boxing champion said though it was wrong for Governor Wike to demolish the hotel when it comes to the issue of curtailing the spread of the pandemic in the country, Nigerians should take the preventive measures put in place by the government seriously. Recall that President Muhammadu Buhari earlier this month announced the gradual phasing out of the country’s lockdown in the FCT-Abuja, Ogun and Lagos States. The president ordered for a gradual easing of the lockdown order while putting additional measures in place to address the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the country. However, the ex-boxing champion said: “Nigerians should learn to observe all the measures put in place by the government since it is not the best choice for us to lift the lockdown at this time when we are really seeing the evidence of active community spread of COVID-19.” Meanwhile, Oboh continued reaching out to the poor and needy in his Ajegunle, Apapa neighbourhood yesterday as he gives food items in large numbers. Since the lockdown, the boxer-turned apostle has been spending his hard-earned money distributing relief items like rice, yam, spaghetti, noodles, among others. At Easter, Oboh distributed foodstuffs and face masks to the needy in Olodi-Apapa and Ajegunle areas of Lagos. VANGUARD Ex-boxing champion-turned-Pastor Peter Oboh, has cautioned Nigerian entertainers over the use of alcohol as a cure to the deadly Coronavirus pandemic ravaging the whole world. Oboh also hailed prominent Nigerians, who have donated handsomely to support the Federal Government to combat the deadly virus in the country. Oboh, in a… April 5, 2020 In "Sports" As the world is currently united in the battle against coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic, former Commonwealth and British Light-Heavyweight boxing champion, Peter Oboh, has urged well-meaning Nigerians and philanthropists to continue reaching out to the poor and needy in the society. The ex-boxing champion, who made this passionate appeal yesterday, said… May 10, 2020 In "News" By Jacob Ajom In the face of the biting effects of the ongoing lockdown in Lagos occasioned by the rampaging coronavirus pandemic, former Commonwealth and British Light-Heavyweight boxing champion, Peter Oboh, has given out food items worth hundreds of thousands of Naira to the needy. The beneficiaries were mainly women,… April 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"