The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has maintained that it has not issued 5G license to any operator in the country. The Commission in a statement on Monday  signed by the Director of Public Affairs, Mr. Henry Nkemadu  was reacting to a statement making rounds in the social media sites that the Nigerian Telecoms industry is going to switch on 5G in Lagos this Sunday 10th, Monday 11th or Tuesday 12th May 2020. The Commission, while dismissing the report insisted that the statement which came from faceless sponsors cannot be further from the truth, wondering why people would continue to misinform the public after it had provided clarification on the lying of fibre optic cables within Lagos and other parts of the country. Recall that the NCC had in November 2019 approved trial test for 5G for a period of three (3) months and that the trial has been concluded and installation decommissioned. The Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, said that ‘’the trial among others was to study and observe any health or security challenges the 5G network might present. Relevant stakeholders including members of the security agencies were present to participate during the trial. The statement reads in part: ‘‘The attention of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has been drawn to a mischievous statement making the rounds on social media like Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter, LinkedIn and other sites that the Nigerian Telecoms industry is going to switch on 5G in Lagos this Sunday 10th, Monday 11th or Tuesday 12th May 2020. ‘‘The statement from the faceless individuals or groups cannot be further from the truth. The Commission has unequivocally stated that there is no deployment of 5G in Nigeria at the moment. The NCC back in November 2019 approved trial test for 5G for a period of three (3) months and that the trial has been concluded and installation decommissioned. ‘‘The NCC had provided clarifications of Frequently Asked Questions on 5G in view of the recent developments in which misleading materials with no proven evidence are being circulated to link CORONAVIRUS or COVID-19 with 5G Technology and therefore refutes the claim that there will be switching on of 5G in Lagos in its entirety. ‘‘The Commission also provided clarifications on the laying of fibre optic cables within Lagos and other parts of the country to the effect that the laying of additional fibre optic cables is to strengthen the existing 3G and 4G infrastructure to provide robust and pervasive telecoms infrastructure to improve network performance. ‘’NCC has not issued any licence for 5G in Nigeria and therefore the mobile network operators (MNOS) cannot switch on such technology. NCC is technology neutral as such we don’t license technology but assigns spectrum to operators for deployment of any service when allocated by National Frequency Management Council (NFMC),’’ Danbatta said. He said that the NCC will continue to maintain its policy of technology neutrality and will continue to encourage Service providers to deploy the best technology that will meet the needs of the society in a secured and friendly manner. He enjoined Nigerians to get accurate information from us rather than relying on information emanating on social media by some individuals out of ignorance to misinform the people. 5G is a fifth generation of mobile technology which is an improvement of today’s 4G technology with enhanced capabilities. It provides the platform for new and emerging technologies such as Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Big Data to improve the way we live and work. Vanguard The Federal government says no license has so far been issued for 5G deployment in the country. In a statement issued on Saturday by the Spokesperson to the minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Mrs. Uwa Suleiman, the minister said he was worried by the public concern about the health implications… April 4, 2020 In "News" The controversy raging over whether the new revolutionary network, fifth-generation network, 5G is behind the rampaging coronavirus, COVID-19 pandemic or not, understandably should be of concern to Nigerians. April 9, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Patami, in this interview, says 5G phone technology has nothing to do with coronavirus. April 12, 2020 In "Technology"