The commemoration of the 2020 Africa Day organized by the African Union, AU in partnership with organizers of All Africa Music Awards, AFRIMA held amid fun fare on Monday, featuring a virtual live solidarity concert for the African Union COVID-19 Response Fund. The concert broadcast on multiple electronic and digital media channels in Africa was staged under the theme: “Health Security in the Context of COVID-19” and featured electrifying and inspiring live performances from more than 20 African music superstars. It also conveyed motivating messages to viewers using the tag #StrongerTogether #StrongerthanCovid The concert opened with the official anthem of the African Union, followed by addresses by the African Union Chairperson, His Excellency,Moussa Faki Mahamat, Commissioner for Social Affairs, African Union Commission, Her Excellency, Mrs. Amira El Fadil during which they appealed for donations in cash or in kind to the Africa COVID-19 Response Fund to aid the AU’s fight against the ravaging coronavirus pandemic. Other speakers included the Director, Africa Centre for Disease Control, Dr. John Nkengasong; the President and Executive Producer of All Africa Music Awards, AFRIMA, Mike Dada and the African Union Youth Envoy, Ms. Aya Chebbi who respectively reiterated the importance of collective action and donations to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic in Africa. However, the high points of the solidarity concert were captured during various performances by the different music stars that came together to use their influence and talents in a show of solidarity with the African Union and AFRIMA. The carefully curated a concert that reinforced the pan-Atlantic diversity of the continent’s music and showcased a blend of mellow, mid tempo and high-energy performances. In order of performing live from their different locations were: Rudeboy (Nigeria); Pape Diouf (Senegal); Becca (Ghana); Salatiel (Cameroon); Nikita Kering (Kenya); Toofan (Togo); Salif Keita (Mali); Aminux (Morocco); Hiro (DRC); DJ Moh Green (Algeria); Kanvee Adams (Liberia); Daphne (Cameroon); Lizha James (Mozambique): Nadya Shanab (Egypt); Busiswa (South Africa); DJ Spinall (Nigeria); Naiboi (Kenya); Sarkodie (Ghana); 2Baba (Nigeria); Betty G (Ethiopia); Ahmed Soultan (Morocco) and Master KG (South Africa) who closed the Solidarity Concert with his hit single ‘Jerusalema’. In his message after the concert, the International Advisor for AFRIMA, Mr. Rikki Stein, who watched the live stream from London, the United kingdom, said, “That was a beautiful show. I salute all concerned. Whether or not money was raised, the message was, more importantly, strongly and eloquently presented urging viewers to do everything possible and necessary to hopefully avoid another CoronaVirus related disaster or huge loss of lives anywhere on the Continent”. The concert was hosted by three of Africa’s finest entertainment personalities including, Eddie Kadi (Democratic Republic of Congo DRC); Chidinma Ekile (Nigeria) and Pamela ‘Miss P’ Happi (Cameroon). The 2020 Africa Day #StrongerTogether solidarity concert was aimed at inspiring action with key messages on the prevention, protection and response measures to contain CoronaVirus. The concert leveraged the power of music and the crucial role of African artistes in advocating the curb of COVID-19 on the continent as well as galvanizing solidarity for financial and in-kin contributions to the Africa COVID-19 Response Fund. Vanguard Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu is to be specially honoured with the prestigious award as “Pillar of Art and Culture in Africa” by the African Union Commission (AUC) at the All Africa Music Awards, AFRIMA 2015, scheduled to hold on Sunday, November 15, 2015 at Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island,… October 29, 2015 In "News" Multi-award winning African-American music star, Akon, has been unveiled as host of the 4th annual All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA) scheduled to hold on Sunday, November 12, 2017 at the Eko Convention Centre of the Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria. November 3, 2017 In "Entertainment" The All Africa Music Awards, AFRIMA, experienced the warmth of the music and culture industry of Ghana on Monday, May 21, 2018 when the calendar of events for the 5th edition of the biggest awards event on the continent was unveiled by the African Union following a meeting and courtesy… May 24, 2018 In "News"