Some Kogi indigenes working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Thursday, kicked against the ambassadorial nomination of Mrs Regina Ingekem Ocheni, in a petition written to the Presidency, Senate, and Department of State Security, DSS, to drop her as nominee from Kogi State over indigeneship. The petition signed was by one Usman Abubakar on behalf of other petitioners who raised the concern. According to the petitioners who alleged that the ambassadorial nominee was not from Kogi State, but married to an Igala man from Kogi State while she is from Cross River State as her state of origin, based on established procedures and requirements for Foreign Service appointments which she does not meet the condition. The petition reads in part, “The reason is obvious as it will show her local government and state of origin which is contrary to what she is claiming to be from Kogi State. “Civil service rules say every married woman must claim her state of origin. Mrs. Ocheni is a native of Cross River State but married to an Igala man. By the service wide extant regulations issued by the Federal Character Commission, an officer is prohibited from claiming the state of her spouse for the purpose of any appointment.” The petitioners also alleged that she (Ocheni) does not have first degree as requirement to be an ambassadorial nominee from Kogi State, because she has Higher National Diploma, HND, as qualification that does not meet the requirement for the position she is being nominated for. “She possesses HND in Secretariat Studies which is not recognized as a qualification for the job. At the time she joined the civil service, the law harmonizing HND and first degree had not been passed and accented to”, the petition added. vanguard THE Senate, Tuesday, rejected the names of 46 non career ambassadorial nominees sent to it by President Muhammadu Buhari. November 15, 2016 In "News" AS the Senate resumes its screening of ministerial nominees today, anxiety has gripped the senators and nominees. While nominees are bothered over the outcome of the exercise, the senators were unsettled by the decision of the court not to stop the Code of Conduct Tribunal, CCT from proceeding with its… October 20, 2015 In "Headlines" The Senate, yesterday, confirmed the appointment of three non-career ambassadorial nominees and ignored the report of the Department of State Service, DSS, not to confirm the nomination of 82-year-old Sylvanus Nsofor. June 8, 2017 In "News"