Tragedy struck in Ogun State when a 26-year-old man, Olajide Asade, who was reportedly making a video call with his girlfriend in Siun along Abeokuta-Sagamu expressway, was crushed by a Mazda car, yesterday. It was gathered that the deceased and his brother, who identified himself as Azeez, boarded a commercial vehicle from Kuto motor park in Abeokuta going to Ajah before the car developed a mechanical fault at Siun. While other passengers were standing by the roadside waiting for the driver to repair his vehicle, the deceased concentrated on his video call with his girlfriend and thereby lost concentration. His brother, Azeez, who was travelling with him, said they were both travelling to visit their mother in Ajah area of Lagos State. Azeez said his brother had been making the video call with the girlfriend from when they took off from Kuto motor park in Abeokuta, stressing that they left their house at Ijoga Orile in Abeokuta North Local Government Area of Ogun State very early for the journey. He maintained that the driver of the car, who hit the deceased, was on normal speed. Speaking with newsmen, the driver of the car, Bolaji Balogun, said the deceased rammed into his vehicle while on transit on the expressway. Balogun, a staff of Buas Farm, said he was going to Obasanjo’s farm to purchase eggs for his company. The corpse of the deceased has been deposited at the morgue while the driver has been detained in the police custody. Vanguard By James Ogunnaike Tragedy broke out on Wednesday in Siun, along Abeokuta-Sagamu expressway when a 26-year-old man, Olajide Asade was crushed to death by a Mazda car. It was gathered that, the accident occurred when the deceased was making a video call with his girlfriend while along the expressway. VANGUARD… May 7, 2020 In "News" Pandemonium broke out, yesterday, in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital, following the death of a commercial driver identified as Saubana Onila allegedly shot by officers of Nigeria Customs Service, who were allegedly after smugglers at Kobape area, along Sagamu-Siun Expressway. March 9, 2017 In "News" LAST year January, Ogun State Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, disclosed that the state has the largest number of illegal land border entries into the country. Amosun hinted that all the illegal borders scattered in some parts of Ogun West Senatorial District have been causing huge challenges to the state in… March 17, 2017 In "News"