EBONYI State Resident Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, Prof. Gods will Obioma, has been named the new Registrar and Chief Executive Officer of the National Examinations Council, NECO. President Muhammadu Buhari approved Obioma’s appointment to replace Charles Uwakwe, who, until his sack last Friday by the president, was on suspension running into two years. A statement, Friday, by Azeez Sani, Head, Information and Public Relations Division of NECO, said the president’s action was conveyed, “In a letter dated 15th May, 2020 with Reference No: FME/PS/396/C1/1/134 and signed by the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu.” According to the statement, the letter “stated that the appointment which is for an initial tenure of five years, takes effect from 14th May, 2020.” It read in full:”President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Professor Godswill Obioma as Registrar/Chief Executive of the National Examinations Council. “In a letter dated 15th May, 2020 with Reference No: FME/PS/396/C1/1/134 and signed by the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, stated that the appointment which is for an initial tenure of five years, takes effect from 14th May, 2020. “A professor of Education Measurement and Evaluation, Obioma was born on 12th December 1953 and hail from Bende Local Government Area of Abia State. The Registrar on Friday, 22nd May, 2020 formally took over the affairs of the Council from the former Acting Registrar, Mallam Abubakar Gana at the Council’s Headquarters in Minna. “He was a former Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Educational Research and Development Council. “Prof. Obioma has held other key positions in the education sector, among which are: Director, Monitoring, Research and Statistics, National Business and Technical Examinations Board (NABTEB); Director Monitoring and Evaluation Universal Basic Education Programme; Director Monitoring and Evaluation National Primary Education Commission and Head, Department of Science, Mathematics and Technology, University of Jos. “Until his appointment as Registrar/CE of NECO, Prof. Obioma was the Ebonyi State Resident Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission. “An erudite scholar, Prof. Obioma has many scholarly publications to his credit. He is married and blessed with children.” Vanguard By Joseph Erunke - Abuja President Muhammad Buhari has appointed Professor Adamu Kyuka Usman as Chairman of Governing Board of the Universal Basic Education Commission, UBEC. The president, in a letter dated 15 May 2020 and signed by the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, a copy of which Vanguard… May 22, 2020 In "Education" The Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo has approved the appointment of 14 new Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). June 29, 2017 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has terminated the appointment of Prof. Charles Uwakwe as the Registrar/Chief Executive of the National Examinations Council, (NECO). May 20, 2020 In "News"