The Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha has said in spite of the coronavirus pandemic that has ravaged the nation’s economy, the Federal Government cannot reduce the Value Added Tax (VAT) from 7.5 per cent, saying the country’s purse was already bleeding. According to Mustapha, the federal government takes only 15 per cent of the VAT while the balance is shared for states and local governments. Boss Mustapha also hailed the organized labour for their commitment to the development of the country. Mustapha said; “The atmosphere for this year’s celebration, more than anything else, forcefully reminds us of the disruption to our hitherto normal way of life and challenges us not only as workers but also as citizens; and to leave no stone unturned in our efforts to return to a semblance of normalcy. “The reality is that our lives, the way we knew it, can never be the same again, post COVID-19. “The reality further challenges the labour movement to carry out research and develop new strategies for workplace operations, and identify innovative ways of ensuring that productivity of the labour force remains a key driver to the nation’s economic growth. “Particularly, the challenges we are currently facing in the health sector on account of COVID-19, should be given adequate attention. “This year’s Labour Theme: ‘Maintaining Safety and Security in the workplace’ further emphasizes the importance of ensuring that all Nigerian workers are adequately protected to increase their productivity. “Similarly, it places on the workers the obligation to take responsibility by adhering to the implementation guidelines that have been developed and circulated especially in this COVID-19 era”. Vanguard News Nigeria. ...says Nigeria on course to stopping COVID-19 ...hails Sanwo-Olu, team on quick response By Olasunkanmi Akoni The presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has said only President Muhammadu Buhari can decide if the lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Abuja, over the Coronavirus pandemic will be extended… April 7, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, assured on Thursday the Federal Government is on top of the situation in Kano State. Mustapha, who is also the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, gave the assurance at the PTF daily briefing in Abuja. He also… April 30, 2020 In "News" The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, has expressed disbelief and lamented the current state of Nigeria's healthcare infrastructure. Mr Boss Mustapha who serves as the chairman of the presidential task force on COVID-19 made this known in a meeting with the leadership of the National… April 10, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"