Bauchi State government has lamented the refusal of two coronavirus positive cases to isolate themselves. Executive Chairman of Bauchi State Primary Healthcare Development Agency (BASPHCDA), Dr Rilwanu Mohammed, yesterday, said two COVID-19 positive people have declined to be isolated in the state. Mohammed, who is also the Chairman, Contact Tracing Committee on COVID-19 in the state, said they refused to be isolated because they denied that COVID-19 is real. He revealed that security agencies in the state have been informed about the situation and they would soon be evacuated to an isolation centre. Mohammed also revealed that two people taking care of one of the 2 COVID-19 positive people at home came forward for testing and one of them was tested positive for the novel Coronavirus. “Some people are still having denial in their minds. We have two people who tested positive and have not reached out facilities. What’s more worrying is that, by their denial, they are infecting family members and other unsuspecting people. “They refused to go (to isolation centre) because they are still denying the fact that coronavirus is real. As they stay at home now, already two of the people taking care of one of them came for testing and one of them tested positive for COVID-19,” Mohammed said. The medical doctor further advised residents of the state to keep abiding by all protocols as set by the government and health experts in order to contain the spread of the virus.   An official of the World Health Organisation (WHO) in Bauchi Office, has tested positive to the deadly Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Bauchi State. Dr Aliyu Maigoro, Bauchi State Commissioner for Health, confirmed this on Sunday in a statement in Bauchi by Mr Ibrahim Sani, Information Officer, Bauchi State Primary Healthcare… April 20, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" An official of the World Health Organisation (WHO) has tested positive to the deadly coronavirus in Bauchi State. A statement from the Ministry of Health signed by Ibrahim Sani for the Commissioner of Health, Dr Aliyu Maigoro Mohammed said that the new positive case is an official of the State… April 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Bauchi State government said on Monday that two new death cases of Coronavirus (COVID-19) had been recorded, bringing the number of deaths in the State to five. Dr. Rilwanu Mohammed, Executive Chairman, Bauchi State Primary Healthcare Development Agency (BASPHCDA) disclosed this in an interview within Bauchi. Mohammed, who… May 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"