SPEAKER of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori has urged Muslim faithful to use the celebration of the Eid-el-Fitr to build a relationship of friendship and harmony with fellow citizens of other faith. Oborevwori in a Press Statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Dennis Otu,
congratulated Muslims in the state and the country on the successful completion of the month-long Ramadan fasting. Felicitating with Muslims on the celebration of this year’s Eid-el-Fitr, he stressed the need for continued peace, progress and prosperity of the country, “especially at this time when the world is battling the spread and containment of the deadly Covid 19 pandemic. He charged the Muslim faithful to use the celebration for sober reflection and seek the intervention of God in healing the land from the dreaded coronavirus and restore the well-being of the country. He said: ” There is no doubt that you are celebrating this year’s Eid-el-Fitr in an unusual atmosphere because of the Coronavirus pandemic ravaging the world. But God will surely win this battle for mankind. ” I want to urge Muslim faithful to use the celebration of the Eid-el-Fitr to build a relationship of friendship and harmony with fellow citizens of other faith. Let us collectively pray for an end to the COVID -19 pandemic in our country in particular and the world in general”. While noting that Islam is a religion of peace that upholds the values of tolerance and mutual coexistence without a place for hatred and violence, he said: “Let us be united in all that we do now and always. “Let us show love and be generous because we are passing through a period that we have never experienced before in our land and with God, everything is going to be fine again. We need love, peace and justice in our nation now more than ever before”. Vanguard SPEAKER of the Delta State House of Assembly, Chief Sheriff Oborevwori has urged Muslim faithful in the country to show love to one another, make selfless sacrifice and tolerate other Nigerians irrespective of their religious affiliation. August 21, 2018 In "News" As muslims all over the world celebrate Eid-el-Fitr, Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa and Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Chief Sheriff Oborevwori, yesterday told Nigerian Islamic believers to extend the spiritual benefits of Ramadan, which are love, peace and justice to their daily living and contribute to… June 15, 2018 In "News" As Nigerian Muslims join their counterparts all over the world to celebrate Eid-el-Fitr, Delta State Governor Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa has sent a message of felicitations to Muslims in the state and country on the occasion of the 2020 Eid-el-Fitr celebration. May 23, 2020 In "News"