Bastian Schweinsteiger believes Bayern Munich are well equipped to win a Bundesliga, DFB-Pokal and Champions League treble this season as he considers a return to football. Bayern have picked up where they left off in the Bundesliga since the league restarted following a two-month pause due to the coronavirus pandemic, winning all four games -including a 1-0 victory over title rivals Borussia Dortmund. Hansi Flick’s side sit 10 points clear of Dortmund at the top of the table, and will face Eintracht Frankfurt for a place in the DFB-Pokal final, while they look to be heading for the Champions League quarter-finals after beating Chelsea 3-0 in a one-sided first leg. With Bayern holding such a large advantage in the Bundesliga, and holders Liverpool having been knocked out of the Champions League, Schweinsteiger thinks his former club have every chance of completing a treble. “In a European comparison, it is a super team,” Schweinsteiger told Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung. “They can win the Champions League, especially since Liverpool has already [been knocked out]. “In the DFB-Pokal you also have a home game against Frankfurt. Even if the home advantage is no longer so great without a spectator, you know your own pitch better.” Schweinsteiger, a treble-winner with Bayern in 2012-13, retired from football in 2019 after two seasons with the Chicago Fire in MLS. The 35-year-old revealed he is considering a path into coaching, though for now, he is content to analyse matches as a TV pundit. “If something interesting comes up at some point that I enjoy, I’ll think about it,” he said. “But when I do something, I want to win and get something done. “It suits me very well to analyse games, after a long career in which I was constantly asked to have more time for the family.” Fotmob Vanguard Relations between Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund continued to sour ahead of the Champions League final on May 25 as Saturday's dress rehearsal in the Bundesliga was marred by a dismissal and a pitch side argument. May 5, 2013 In "Sports" Bayern Munich suffered another midfield blow on Monday as Ukraine star Anatoliy Tymoshchuk was banned for three matches, ruling him out of the showdown with champions Borussia Dortmund on November 19. November 7, 2011 In "Sports" Arjen Robben says Bayern Munich can ill afford to show Real Madrid any fear if they want to avoid a second-straight Champions League exit against the Spaniards. April 22, 2018 In "Sports"