President Muhammad Buhari has appointed Professor Adamu Kyuka Usman as Chairman of Governing Board of the Universal Basic Education Commission, UBEC. The president, in a letter dated 15 May 2020 and signed by the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, a copy of which Vanguard sighted, said the appointment of Usman took effect from May 14, 2020. In the letter, he explained that the appointment was for a four-year period in the first instance. Adamu, who until his appointment, was in the Department of Commercial Law, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, may have his appointment renewed for another four years after the expiration of the first tenure, upon satisfactory performance. The letter titled: “Appointment as Chairman of the Governing Board of the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC)”, read in full: “I write to convey to you the approval of His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari, President and Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, of your appointment as the Chairman of the Governing Board of the Universal Basic Education Commission(UBEC) with effect from 14 May 2020. “The appointment is for a tenure of four years in the first instance and may be renewed for a further tenure of four years upon satisfactory performance. “The condition of service and remunerations of the appointment is guided by the Public Service Rules and Extant Circulars. “Please, accept my congratulations and sincere wishes for a successful tenure.” Vanguard News Nigeria. EBONYI State Resident Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, Prof. Gods will Obioma, has been named the new Registrar and Chief Executive Officer of the National Examinations Council, NECO. May 22, 2020 In "Education" ABUJA--THE federal government said it has so far disbursed a total of N153 billion to states in the last four years for implementation of the Universal Basic Education Commission, UBEC. December 16, 2019 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has written to the Senate, seeking for the screening and subsequent confirmation of his Senior Special Assistant on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora, Honourable Abike Dabiri- Erewa as the Executive Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the newly established Nigerian Diaspora Commission. November 6, 2018 In "News"