Lesotho’s Court of Appeal on Friday ordered the rearrest of former first lady Maesaiah Thabane after revoking her bail on murder charges over the 2017 killing of her husband’s estranged wife. The 42-year-old was charged in February after police quizzed her on the brutal murder of former Prime Minister Thomas Thabane’s wife two days before his inauguration. She spent one night in jail, after which Lesotho’s High Court freed her on a 1,000 maloti ($57) bail. “The decision… is set aside and the bail petition is remitted back to the High Court to be determined by a different judge,” Court of Appeal president Kananelo Mosito ruled on Friday. Police said Maesaiah Thabane would be arrested and handed over to correctional service officials later on Friday. “As soon as we get the written judgement… we will arrest her,” deputy police commissioner Paseka Mokete told AFP. Maesaiah Thabane is suspected of orchestrating the shooting of Lipolelo Thabane, who was gunned down outside her home in the capital Maseru. Police have also charged her for the attempted murder of Lipolelo Thabane’s friend Thato Sibolla, who was wounded at the scene. Lipolelo and Thomas Thabane, now 81, had been embroiled in bitter divorce proceedings when the 48-year-old was killed. The former prime minister agreed to step down in January after police linked his mobile number to communication records from the crime scene. He officially resigned this month, bowing to pressure from his rivals who accused him of hampering investigations into Lipolelo’s death. Thabane has denied any involvement in the murder. His wife initially went into hiding after police first called her in to testify in January. She has not yet been allowed to respond to the charges. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. A Lesotho court has issued an arrest warrant for the prime minister's wife after she failed to turn up for questioning over the 2017 murder of his previous wife, police said Saturday. The announcement came just days after senior officials in the ruling party called for Prime Minister Thomas Thabane… January 11, 2020 In "Foreign" Lesotho police on Tuesday charged first lady Maesaiah Thabane with murder for her alleged links to the brutal 2017 killing of the prime minister's previous wife. Maesaiah Thabane, 42, will spend the night in custody after she came out of hiding and turned herself in to the police earlier on… February 4, 2020 In "Foreign" The wife of Lesotho’s Prime Minister, who is charged with murdering her predecessor, will stand trial on March 17, a magistrate ruled on Tuesday when she appeared in court. Maesaiah Thabane was detained this month accused of ordering the killing of Prime Minister Thomas Thabane’s estranged wife Lipolelo. ALSO READ: NAF… February 18, 2020 In "News"