Fourteen migrant labourers walking back to their villages after being left destitute by India’s strict coronavirus lockdown were killed Friday after being hit by a train, officials said. The men were returning home when they were hit by the goods train in the western state of Maharashtra, police official S.S. Sutale told AFP. They were among millions of India’s migrant workers who have been left unemployed, officials said, after Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a national lockdown in March, sparking an exodus from major cities. Hours after the incident, the Indian rail ministry tweeted that the train driver braked after seeing the men, but was unable to stop in time. Three others were injured and taken to hospital, the ministry said, announcing an inquiry. State police official Vaibhav Kalumbarme said officers were investigating the accident as there were strict guidelines to prevent migrants accessing the railway tracks from stations. “But it is impossible to monitor every inch of the tracks when they take shortcuts,” Kalumbarme told AFP. Although states announced special trains to return migrant labourers, many continue to walk long distances to reach their villages. Local media reported some provinces were charging for the rail tickets, which most can’t afford. The return home has proved deadly for several workers ever since the lockdown started. A study conducted by the non-profit SaveLIFE Foundation said 140 killed in car crashes across the country -– with at least 42 of them were migrant labourers travelling home. “We have been running campaigns cautioning people not to walk on tracks and we are doing everything we can urgently to get them back to their families. This is a tragic incident,” Kalumbarme added. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. At least 23 people were killed and dozens injured after an express train derailed in north India Saturday, officials said, as rescuers clambered across mangled carriages to pull passengers from the wreckage. August 19, 2017 In "News" Hundreds of Indian Police have tested positive for the coronavirus in recent days, raising alarm among an over-stretched force as it attempts to enforce the world’s largest lockdown to contain the pandemic. Some three million police are trying to ensure that the vast majority of India’s 1.3 billion people stay… May 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Emergency workers raced to find any more survivors in the mangled wreckage of an Indian train that derailed Sunday, killing at least 120 people, in the worst disaster to hit the country's ageing rail network in recent years. November 20, 2016 In "News"