The Lagos State Government has announced the recovery and discharge of 45 more Coronavirus patients after they tested negative twice to the virus. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said in a statement on Saturday that 707 patients had now been discharged from the isolation centres. ”Good people of Lagos, I bring you great news from our isolation facilities. “Today, 45 fully recovered COVID-19 Lagos patients; 22 females and 23 males, all Nigerians were discharged to join the society. ”The patients, 19 from the Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, 3 from Onikan, 8 from Agidingbi, 7 from Lekki, 1 from Eti-Osa (LandMark) and 7 from Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) Isolation Centres, were discharged having fully recovered and tested negative to COVID-19. ”With this, the number of patients successfully managed and discharged from our Isolation facilities has risen to 707. ”As we look forward to more great news in the coming days, I urge you all to take responsibility and play your part for a COVID-19 free Lagos,” Sanwo-Olu said. vanguard By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Government on Saturday, discharged 45 more patients from various isolation facilities having recovered fully and tested negative twice consecutively for COVID-19. With the latest record, the total number of cases successfully managed and discharged from isolation facilities has risen to 707. The state Governor, Babajide… May 23, 2020 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Government on Saturday, discharged 45 more patients from various isolation facilities having recovered fully and tested negative twice consecutively for COVID-19. With the latest record, the total number of cases successfully managed and discharged from isolation facilities has risen to 707. The state Governor, Babajide… May 23, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Government has discharged 26 more patients from various isolation facilities having recovered fully and tested negative twice consecutively for COVID-19. With the latest record, the total number of cases successfully managed and discharged from isolation facilities has risen to 528. The state Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu,… May 13, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"