The Nigerian Correctional Service, NCoS, has dismissed speculations that it was holding unto Senator Orji Uzor Kalu at Kuje Prisons due to certain vested interests. It said once all protocols regarding his release are met, it would have no choice but to set him free. The Public Relations Officer of the Service, DCC Austin Njoku, told Vanguard in a telephone interview on Monday night that the NCoS was yet to receive the certified true copy of the judgement of the apex court authorising the said release from its custody. He said: “How can we refuse to release him? What is our business with the judgement of the court? We have no business in keeping anybody at will. “We were not at the Supreme Court. Our own is when they bring the papers for us to release him. The judgement was just on Friday. If papers are transmitted and his name is mentioned as someone to be released, we will release him. “We do not keep people against the law. The law does not permit us to do that. We have no business in keeping him. If they bring the papers to us, we will authenticate the papers to ascertain that it is from a reliable source and we will release him.” There have been some online reports that Kalu was still being held at Kuje Prisons because he was a respondent and not an appellant in the case that the apex court decided on Friday. Vanguard Following the Supreme Court's judgement on Friday that the Federal High Court in Lagos acted without jurisdiction when it convicted Orji Kalu, his firm, Slok Nigeria Limited and former Director of Finance in Abia State, Jones Udeogu, the former governor of Abia State has reacted to the Court's verdict. Speaking… May 8, 2020 In "News" Dr Orji Kalu’s kinsmen on Friday hailed the verdict of the Supreme Court, which nullified the conviction of the former governor of Abia,  who was handed down 12-year jail term for corruption. May 9, 2020 In "News" It has taken 12 years to conclusively prosecute a simple case of stealing. This should make us ask WHY? In 2007, shortly after Orji Uzor Kalu had concluded his 8-year tenure as Abia state governor, the legal battle in this case began. Our criminal justice system is apparently very slow… December 10, 2019 In "Viewpoint"