San Francisco is using private donations to deliver alcohol, tobacco, and medical marijuana to a few dozen people dealing with addiction as they isolate or quarantine in city-leased hotel rooms during the pandemic, officials confirmed Wednesday. There are about 270 people, mostly homeless, staying in hotel rooms to recover from COVID-19 or to wait out possible exposure to the virus. Nearly a dozen people have received alcohol and more than two dozen have received tobacco, the San Francisco Chronicle reported. City officials said that private donations pay for the items, and that helping manage nicotine, opioid and alcohol cravings ensures that recovering people don’t go out and possibly infect others. Dr. Grant Colfax, San Francisco’s public health director, said the harm-reduction approach is widespread and based on decades of sound public health policy. “Our focus needs to be on supporting them,” he said of the people who are isolating or under quarantine. For people experiencing alcohol withdrawal, the Department of Public Health calculates the minimum amount needed and delivers them with meals. The department also facilitates delivery of medication for people trying to kick heroin. The department does not help procure recreational marijuana. [AP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Dozens of people on board the Grand Princess cruise left in limbo off the California coast will be tested for the infection, the cruise liner confirmed in a Thursday morning statement. Princess Cruises said in a statement that there are no confirmed cases of COVID-19 currently onboard the vessel and… March 5, 2020 In "News" Where are the hand sanitisers? This is the poser currently making the rounds. Barely three months after the country was declared Ebola free by the World Health Organisation, WHO, alcohol-based hand sanitisers that held sway at the peak of the Ebola Virus Disease, EVD, outbreak, have practically disappeared from the… January 6, 2015 In "Health" President Barack Obama said Monday that the United States did not yet know who was responsible for blasts at the Boston marathon but he vowed to find those accountable and punish them. April 15, 2013 In "News"