  Sequel to a long restructuring process, the American University of Nigeria (AUN), Yola, Adamawa, has disengaged the services of about 400 of its staff. Prof. Abba Tahir, the Vice President for University Relations, AUN, made the disclosure in a statement made available to newsmen in Yola on Tuesday. Tahir said that majority of the affected personnel were those that had no significant developmental effect on the philosophy of the university. “Certain structural elements have been initiated by the new Governing Council of American University of Nigeria (AUN), in response to NUC requirements, mandating the institution to align with an approved governance structure for all tertiary institutions in the country. ”Until now, AUN has operated a student-staff ratio which balance had continued to affect the sustainability of the university. ”This is clearly an uncommon and hardly workable tradition in all institutions and organisations around the world. Obviously, it is unattainable. ”Thus, consequent upon the university’s new governing council vote to restructure the institution in line with its agenda for sustainability, a process of workforce rationalisation has been in the pipeline. ”It is now time for the university to look back, look around and look ahead, to ensure that realistic and globally competitive administrative practices can be achieved in structure, strategy, and focus. “It would not be realistic for AUN to continue to anchor its administrative structure on over-bloated personnel whose role does not have a significant effect on the philosophy of a development university,” he said. The vice president for university relations further stated that in the emerging sustainable structure, competitive personnel was retained, while others were disengaged honourably. He said that all those affected were paid all their contractual benefits at the point of clearance, to continue with their lives somewhere else. Tahir said that as a typical American style institution, AUN deliberately trained its students to search for sustainable solutions to human development challenges. ”Students are deliberately armed with lifelong skills and competencies to develop sustainable solutions to the myriad of challenges faced by society. ”The challenges posed by the unsustainable redundancies in AUN’s operational structure for the university is one that needed to be addressed ever since,” Tahir said. DUE to intermittent attacks, including suicide bombings, from Boko Haram insurgents, major parts of Nigeria’s North East states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa are generally perceived as often haunted by the spectre of death and destruction, and therefore, no-go-areas. This is why Yola, the Adamawa State capital, which until lately… December 16, 2015 In "Features" Oga, I have been doing this airport taxi business in Yola for 10 years, and I have never seen as many as 27 aircraft parked at the tarmac in one day,” said Musa, a car hire driver at the Yola airport. “Seriously speaking,” he continued, “I have never seen one… January 12, 2019 In "News" THE American University of Nigeria (AUN) has joined nearly1,000 colleges and universities in the United Nations Academic Impact, UNAI, a global initiative made up of academic institutions that focus on global priorities such as peace, human rights and sustainable development. April 16, 2015 In "Education"