Akure—AN Army captain and three others were reportedly abducted by suspected herdsmen along Auga/Akunnu highway in Akoko North-East council area of Ondo State. Reports had it that the abductors had demanded N20 million ransom from the families of the victims before their release. Vanguard gathered that the army officer identified as D. Gana was on transit in Ondo from Abuja with others when they were ambushed by the herdsmen, who dragged them into the forest, leaving the four doors of their vehicle wide open. A police source said the kidnappers did not take away any of the belongings of the victims. It was gathered that the Divisional Police Officer of Ikare Division deployed men of the state police command to the area when information of the incident reached them only to meet the abandoned vehicle. Contacted, the state police image maker, Tee-Leo Ikoro, confirmed that the incident took place along Auga/Akunnu highway around 4 am Tuesday. Ikoro said: “Tthe state Police command had been briefed while the state Police Commissioner, Undie Adie, had ordered detectives from the command to search the forest for the kidnappers in a bid to rescue the officer. “An intensive investigation on the incident has begun. We enjoin anybody with useful information that could lead to the arrest of the criminals to forward same to the police for onward action. Ikoro said both the police and military operative are on top of the situation, adding that the victim would soon be released unhurt. Meanwhile, men of the 32 Artillery Brigade, Akure of the Nigerian Army had reportedly mobilised to the area to comb the bush to rescue the victims and apprehend the culprits. Vanguard Kidnappers Wednesday, abducted D Gana, army Captain along Kabba-Auga Akoko expressway in Akoko north-east local government area of Ondo state, Vanguard learnt. May 13, 2020 In "News" Akure—FOUR gun-wielding kidnappers reportedly abducted a top official of the Universal Basic Education Board, UBEB, Abuja, Femi Adesote, along the notorious Auga-Akoko Highway in Ondo State. February 14, 2019 In "News" Akure—SUSPECTED kidnappers weekend went on a rampage at three different locations in Ondo state by abducting another lecturer, school children and three others including a couple. December 17, 2018 In "Crime Guard"