Presidency says the recently repatriated Sani Abacha loot will go towards three of the Federal Government’s five priority projects, excluding the Mambilla power and East-West road projects. Malam Garba Shehu, the President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, gave this clarification in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday. The statement read in part: ”In an earlier statement, I had mistakenly noted that the Mambilla was one of five priority projects to benefit from the $311 million Abacha loot under the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF) managed by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). That error is regretted. ”Although the Mambilla and East-West expressway are regarded under the PIDF as priority projects, I have ascertained that they are exempted from the agreement signed between the Nigerian, United States and British territory of Jersey governments. ”According to the document, only the second Niger bridge, Abuja-Kaduna-Kano expressway, and Lagos-Ibadan expressway will benefit from the repatriated funds. The funds are domiciled in the NSIA.” The presidential aide, therefore, enjoined all print and online media to take note of the correction and make the necessary adjustments to their previous publications on the issue. Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Abuja The Presidency yesterday said that the East-West Road and the Mambilla Power Projects were not part of the priority projects of the federal government that would benefit from the returned $311 million stolen by former Military Head of State, late Gen. Sani Abacha. The Senior Special… May 13, 2020 In "News" ABUJA- THE Presidency on Wednesday said that the East-West Road and the Mambilla Power Projects were not part of the priority projects of the federal government that would benefit from the returned $311 million stolen by former Military Head of State, late Gen. Sani Abacha. May 13, 2020 In "News" FORMER Federal Commissioner  for Information and South South Leader, Chief Edwin Clark, yesterday urged President Muhammadu Buhari not to leave out the Niger Delta region from the recovered General Sani Abacha Loot. February 6, 2020 In "News"