Germany goalkeeper Manuel Neuer has signed a new deal with Bayern Munich that ties him to the club until 2023, the Bundesliga champions said on Wednesday. The announcement ends weeks of speculation over Manuel Neuer, Bayern captain’s future, with widespread reports that talks between player and club had hit the rocks. “During the weeks of the shutdown for the coronavirus pandemic, I didn’t want to make a decision because nobody knew if, when and how Bundesliga football would continue,” Neuer said in a statement. “I look to the future with great optimism. I feel very comfortable and at home in Bavaria.” Last month the Bild daily reported that Neuer and his agent Thomas Kroth were demanding a five-year deal with a salary of 20 million euros ($22 million) per season. Neuer had revealed his irritation both at the status of the talks and that details were being leaked to the media. A World Cup winner in 2014 with Germany, Neuer joined Bayern from Schalke in 2011 and has won almost everything with the Bavarian giants, with seven Bundesliga titles, five German Cups, and the 2013 Champions League to his name. The 34-year-old is on course to win his eighth league crown with Bayern after a 2-0 win at Union Berlin on Sunday that maintained his team’s four-point lead at the top of the table as the Bundesliga became the first major European league to return from the coronavirus shutdown. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Bayern Munich captain and goalkeeper Manuel Neuer told German media Sunday he has become "irritated" with negotiations to extend his contract, which have reportedly stalled in recent weeks. "All talks I have had since I have been here have been confidential... nothing has ever leaked," the 34-year-old told Germany's most… April 19, 2020 In "Sports" Chelsea and Manchester City are reportedly interested in signing Germany captain Manuel Neuer, whose contract extension talks have stalled at Bayern Munich, according to magazine Kicker. The goalkeeper's current deal expires in June 2021 and Neuer, 34, is said to be angry that details of the renegotiations have been leaked… April 14, 2020 In "Sports" The pitheads around Gelsenkirchen bear testimony to the heavy industry linking the region to local Bundesliga club Schalke 04, nicknamed 'The Miners', where Manuel Neuer started his impressive career. May 30, 2018 In "Sports"