A plane in Pakistan with nearly 100 people on board crashed into a residential area in the southern city of Karachi on Friday, killing several people on the ground. The Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane was close to landing when it came down among houses, sparking an explosion and sending plumes of smoke into the air that could be seen from some distance away. Rescue workers and local residents pulled people from the debris, as firefighters tried to extinguish the flames. An AFP reporter witnessed charred bodies being loaded into ambulances. Seemin Jamali, a director from Jinnah Post Graduate Medical College in the city, said eight dead and 15 injured people had been brought to the facility. “They were all from the ground, no (plane) passengers have been brought here,” she said. Residents near the scene said their walls shook before a big explosion erupted as the plane slammed into their neighbourhood. “I was coming from the mosque when I saw the plane tilting on one side. The engines’ sounds were quite weird. It was so low that the walls of my house were trembling,” said 14-year-old witness Hassan. Karachi resident Mudassar Ali said he “heard a big bang and woke up to people calling for the fire brigade”. PIA spokesman Abdullah Hafeez said there were 91 passengers and seven crew on board the flight, which lost contact with air traffic control just after 2.30pm (0930 GMT). Interior minister Ijaz Ahmad Shah said the plane had developed a technical fault and that the pilot had said the craft had lost an engine and issued a mayday call. The disaster comes as Pakistanis across the country are preparing to celebrate the end of Ramadan and the beginning of Eid al-Fitr, with many travelling back to their homes in cities and villages. Abdul Sattar Khokhar, a spokesman for the country’s aviation authority, said the Airbus A320 was travelling from Lahore to Karachi. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said he was “shocked and saddened” by the crash, tweeting that he was in touch with the state airline’s chief executive. “Prayers & condolences go to families of the deceased,” he wrote on Twitter. Foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said the plane crashed into a residential area minutes before it was due to land. The Pakistan military said security forces had been deployed to the area and helicopters were being used to survey the damage and help ongoing rescue operations, while offering condolences over the “loss of precious lives” in the incident. Commercial flights resumed only days ago, after planes were grounded during a lockdown over the coronavirus pandemic. Pakistan has a chequered military and civilian aviation safety record, with frequent plane and helicopter crashes over the years. In 2016, a Pakistan International Airlines plane burst into flames after one of its two turboprop engines failed while flying from the remote north to Islamabad, killing more than 40 people. The deadliest air disaster on Pakistani soil was in 2010, when an Airbus A321 operated by private airline Airblue and flying from Karachi crashed into the hills outside Islamabad as it came into land, killing all 152 people on board. An official report blamed the accident on a confused captain and a hostile cockpit atmosphere. PIA, one of the world’s leading airlines until the 1970s, now suffers from a sinking reputation due to frequent cancellations, delays and financial troubles. It has been involved in numerous controversies over the years, including the jailing of a drunk pilot in Britain in 2013. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. A Pakistani plane carrying 48 people crashed Wednesday in the country's mountainous north and burst into flames, authorities said, as rescue workers pulled dozens of bodies from the wreckage and officials expressed little hope for survivors. December 7, 2016 In "News" LAGOS (AFP) - Rescuers recovered burnt human remains as investigators probed for clues Monday after a plane slammed into a Lagos neighbourhood, with all 153 on board killed and more feared dead on the ground. Police fired tear gas at a surging crowd seeking to get a look at the crash… June 4, 2012 In "News" DR Congo Twenty-three bodies were recovered on Sunday after a small plane crashed on takeoff into a densely populated area of Goma in the Democratic Republic of Congo, rescue workers said. "We are up to 23 bodies now," Goma rescue service coordinator Joseph Makundi told AFP. Goma airport official Richard… November 24, 2019 In "News"