Dr Rilwanu Mohammed, Executive Chairman, Bauchi State Primary Healthcare Development Agency (BASPHCDA), said 41 persons had died of Lassa fever from January to date in the state. Mohammed, who disclosed this in Bauchi on Saturday, noted that Lassa fever is more deadly than Coronavirus (COVID-19). The PHCDA boss explained that a case of Coronavirus reported early have greater chances to get treated and recovers. He added that most cases of Lassa fever were reported late, hence the number of death of patients. “We just recorded another two deaths resulting from Lassa fever. This has brought the total number of deaths as a result of Lassa fever to forty-one. “Coronavirus has been with us since 23rd of March this year, however, we have only recorded three deaths as a result of the virus. “Most of Coronavirus cases reported early, have greater chances to recovery compare to Lassa fever infested people,” he said. He expressed concern that Lassa fever infested cases, always seek for medical attention late. According to him,  until they have fever, they start bleeding from faeces, when it would have already been too late before they report. “Now we have 41 people who have lost their lives due to Lassa fever contrast to three people who have lost their lives to Coronavirus,” he said. He said the state government has intensified training of staff on how to carry out effective fumigation and spraying. He added that the state government would be embarking on a massive spraying and decontamination of communities in order to combat Lassa fever in the state. Mohammed, however, urged residents to also contribute their own quota by always reporting any suspected case of Lassa fever in the state as early diagnosis and treatment could help patients to recover. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Commiserating with families of Nigerians who died during the current outbreak, the NMA said two Nigerian doctors have lost their lives in Kano. Lassa fever, an acute viral hemorrhagic fever, has continued to rage like bush fire, spreading into many communities across the country. According to the Nigerian Centre… February 2, 2020 In "Health" Now that there is no vaccine, there must be research and development, for us to develop vaccine for Lassa because it is a black’s man problem September 3, 2017 In "Health" SOMETIME in 1969 in a town called Lassa in the part of Nigeria now known as Borno State, a nurse in a mission hospital died of a mysterious disorder. There were two similar reported cases in Chicago, and New Jersey, United States (US). Both individuals had recent travel history to… January 10, 2016 In "Health"