The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), is making use of data to drive response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), pandemic outbreak in the country. Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, Director General of NCDC, disclosed this at the Presidential Task Force (PTF) daily briefing on COVID19 on Wednesday in Abuja. Ihekweazu highlighted how data is being used to drive the public health response to the COVID-19. He said that the agency developed an electronic data collecting tool after the Ebola outbreak. He stated that the tool was the reason why Nigerians see the data of cases every day. “The NCDC also has a tool for logistics management. “We can tell with this tool where every single mask, medical gown or sanitizer has gone. “We have a tool called Tatafo to help manage misinformation and develop targeted messages once we notice rumours or misinformation. “We can give the data of every single person that has received any item from NCDC.,” he said. Also speaking, the Minister of Aviation, Mr Hadi Sirika announced with regrets that the aviation sector will not start business immediately. Sirika said that it was a very regulated sector so, it would have to ensure parked planes were still airworthy and that the crew and fit to fly. “We have developed protocols on this. Pilots and crew will go through certification before they fly again,” he said. Giving an update on palliatives measures, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Ms Sadiya Farooq said the ministry has made progress on overhauling the school feeding programme pursuant to the directives of the president. “We want to give take-home rations to the school children in conjunction with States. “The school feeding programme will be carried out based on the data we have,” she said. Vanguard News Nigeria The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said it tested 2000 samples on April 30, the highest daily test recorded since the outbreak of Novel Coronavirus pandemic in the country. Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, Director General, NCDC, disclosed this while fielding questions from journalists at the Presidential Task Force (PTF) briefing… May 2, 2020 In "News" By David Royal The Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Chikwe Ihekweazu, while speaking on Channels Television Sunrise Daily programme on Thursday, revealed that the deadly coronavirus pandemic will get to all the 36 states in Nigeria. Vanguard reported on Wednesday that 407 people in the country… April 16, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says countries have different approaches to test for Coronavirus (COVID-19), as Nigeria has a carefully calibrated testing approach. Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, Director-General of NCDC, made the assertion on Thursday in Abuja, against the backdrop that some countries were testing more for the virus.… April 23, 2020 In "News"