Ekiti State House of Assembly, on Monday, confirmed Chief Akin Aregbesola as the Chairman, Governing Board of  Ekiti Security Network, codenamed Amotekun. Also confirmed was Brig-Gen Joe Komolafe (retd) as the Corps Commander, while Mrs. B. J. Akin-Obasola, Mr. Idowu Ajayi and Major Fatai Fakorede (retd) were confirmed as members of the outfit. The confirmation was done at the sitting presided over by the Speaker, Mr. Funminiyi Afuye, through scrutiny and screening. Earlier, Afuye had read a letter written by Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Biodun Oyebanji, on behalf of Governor Kayode Fayemi nominating members-designate for the Amotekun Governing Board for the assembly’s confirmation. Speaking with newsmen shortly after his confirmation, Chairman of the Ekiti Security Network, Chief Aregbesola, called for cooperation from every resident of towns and villages. Aregbesola said: “We will need the assistance of everyone living in Ekiti towns and villages, who will volunteer information that would ensure the protection of lives and properties in the state. “We are warning all criminals, bandits and kidnappers in Ekiti to vacate the state now, because there will be no more hiding place for them and their nefarious activities. “I want to assure Ekiti people that we will not disappoint their confidence, reposed in us.” He, however, stated that Amotekun is not a regional community policing, rather an intelligence-gathering agency that would work in synergy with other security agents like the police, DSS and others to rid Ekiti of insecurity. Vanguard Ekiti Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has approved the appointment of members of the Governing Board of the Ekiti Security Network Agency, popularly known as “Amotekun Corps”. May 3, 2020 In "News" By Dayo Johnson, Dapo Akinrefon, Shina Abubakar & James Ogunnaike As the delay in the take-off of Amotekun persists, armed robbers and kidnappers go on the prowl again in the South-West region of the country. Chairman of the South-West Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ondo State, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu(SAN), had… May 8, 2020 In "News" Ado Ekiti—Ekiti State House of  Assembly, on Friday passed the Ekiti State Security Network Agency codenamed Amotekun bill  into law. February 14, 2020 In "News"