THE Federal Government has warned against resumption of any school at any level, saying all schools remained closed. Acting on the government’s directive, National Universities Commission, NUC, has warned vice chancellors against reopening universities for any activities. The government, in a circular dated Friday, May 8, 2020, to heads of commissions and regulatory bodies in the education sector, insisted that schools at all levels were still closed, asking them to ignore fake news in the social media that it had directed resumption of schools. The Ministry of Education, in the letter, through the Permanent Secretary, Sonny Echono, entitled: Re: Management of Coronavirus Pandemic,” said: “All schools shall remain closed as we closely monitor developments on the containment of COVID-19.” The circular was sent to the executive secretaries, National Universities Commission, NUC; National Board for Technical Education, NBTE; National Commission for Colleges of Education, NCCE, and the Director, Basic and Secondary Education, BSE. It read: “Further to our earlier circular, FME/PSE/HE/1041/C 1/Vol.1/137 of 19th March, 2020, this is to confirm that all schools shall remain closed as we monitor developments on the containment of COVID-19. “This is without prejudice to officers on essential services and other operational exigencies as may be determined by the  chief executive of each institution. “All chief executives and other stakeholders are to ignore ‘fake news’ on the subject matter in the social media as the situation is under constant review and any decision on the resumption shall be conveyed through the appropriate channels.“ Following the directive by the ministry, the NUC has written to vice chancellors asking them to ensure the sustenance of ongoing closure of universities until further notice. In a letter to all vice chancellors, signed by Director, Directorate of Executive Secretary’s Office, Chris Maiyaki,the NUC enjoined them to strictly adhere to the ministry’s directive that all universities remain closed to activities. Vanguard The Federal Government, yesterday, reviewed the seven-day ultimatum given to striking university lecturers to resume today or be sacked as it now gave them till Monday, December 9. This came as most members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities remained adamant and vowed to continue with the strike until… December 4, 2013 In "Headlines" By Joseph Erunke THE National Universities Commission, NUC, has ordered the closure of all universities in Nigeria the country over coronavirus. The action, according to the universities' regulatory body, was intended to prevent further spread of disease which has recorded 12 cases so far in the country. NUC’s Deputy Executive Secretary,… March 20, 2020 In "Education" The management of the University of Lagos, UNILAG has directed that all students should leave the hostels as precautionary measures against Coronavirus. March 21, 2020 In "Education"