President Muhammadu Buhari, Thursday, appointed an acting Managing Director for Bank of Agriculture, BoA, Alwan Ali Hassan, amid the ravaging Coronavirus, COVID-19 pandemic. This was contained in a statement signed by the Director, Information, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Theodore Ogaziechi, where it was disclosed that President Buhari also approved immediate dissolution of the Interim Management Team of the bank and appointed Hassan, a seasoned banker with over two decades of experience in the banking industry to manage affairs of the farmers’ bank. According to the statement, the approval of Buhari was conveyed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Muhammad Nanono, via a letter dated May 5, 2020, with reference No. PRES/95/MARD/14. The statement reads in part, “President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the immediate dissolution of the Interim Management Team and the appointment of an Acting Managing Director for the Bank of Agriculture in the person of Mr. Alwan Ali Hassan, a seasoned Banker with over two decades of experience in the banking industry. “The approval of Mr. President was conveyed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono via a letter dated May 5, 2020, with reference No. PRES/95/MARD/14. “Mr. Hassan’s appointment is most apt and will expectedly turn the fortunes of the bank around considering  his   decades of experience in the banking sector He worked with Bank PHB, First Bank of Nigeria, African International Bank Limited, United Bank for Africa and the Central Bank of Nigeria.” The statement also added that Hassan hails from Kano State and holds a Master’s Degree in Business Administration and had served on the Management Boards of Orient Bank, Uganda; Bank PHB in the Gambia, and Platinum Capital and Trust Limited, Nigeria. Until his appointment as Chairman/CEO Midrange Universal Biz Ltd,  a member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers, the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors among others. “He also has thorough grooming of management prowess having attended training at the famous IMD Business School Lausanne, Switzerland and Intrados Business School, Washington DC, USA. “The Bank of Agriculture being the nation’s apex agricultural and rural development finance institution, saddled with the responsibility of providing agricultural credit facilities in support of agricultural value chain activities, will benefit immensely from the vast banking experiences of Alwan Ali Hassan”, the statement added. vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari Thursday, appointed Alwan Ali Hassan as acting Managing Director of Bank of Agriculture (BoA). The Director of Information, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Theodore Ogaziechi, who disclosed in a statement, said President Buhari also approved the immediate dissolution of the Interim Management Team of the… May 7, 2020 In "News" ---Appoints Varsity Don As MD By Johnbosco Agbakwuru ABUJA---PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Prof. Kemebradikumo Daniel Pondei as the Acting Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. Professor Pondei is taking over from the present Acting Managing Director, Barrister Joi Nunieh This was contained in a… February 20, 2020 In "News" The Concerned Common Citizens of Nigeria (CCCN) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to order a full scale investigation into the promotion scandal that has hit the Nigeria Export-Import (NEXIM) Bank saying the action of the acting Managing Director/Chief Executive of the specialized institution, Mr Bashir Wali has the potential to… February 29, 2016 In "News"