US-based Nigerian recording artiste, is fast winning new fans with his new song, Gbana. The song is currently ruling airwaves as fans commend the multiple award winning artiste for his music genius. For somebody, who has been a constant hit maker, MC Chido in this new song showed why he remains one of the most prominent Nigerian music stars making the country proud abroad and keeping his local fan base intact. From blazing through with different hit songs that have earned him top recognition abroad, the Ebonyi State-born singer is respected for helping to put Nigerian indigenous music on the global spotlight. MC Chido, who describes his new song as a tune that would help many people get through these difficult times as they vibe to the song and get along with the rhythm. The new song is coming on the heels of his debut album, “Prelude” which was released on February 1 with the album recording success and earning positive reviews from his fans both home and abroad. Still basking in the success of the 13-track album, MC Chido said he’s excited to be giving his fans relatable tunes that could stand the test of time, especially in moments like this. His13-track album was produced by top music producers including Walter Blackson, DJ Coublon, Vampire Beatz, Chris Stringz among. VANGUARD By Kehinde Ajose In those days in the Nigerian music scene, you are not considered a bonafide musician until you have an album to your name. Now, the story has changed as we have artistes who are yet to release their first albums, but already have massive hits, huge fan… November 22, 2014 In "Showtime People" Nigerian international musician Chidozie Okoro, professionally called ‘Mc Chido’ returns with celebrated highlife singer Pardon C on a brand new music – ‘Ogogoro’. July 17, 2018 In "Entertainment" US-based recording and performing artiste, Idam Chidozie Okoro, better known as MC Chido is currently excited about the dimension is music career is assuming. September 28, 2019 In "Entertainment"