Rolls-Royce, the British maker of plane engines, said Wednesday it will cut at least 9,000 jobs and slash costs elsewhere, as the coronavirus slams the aviation sector. “This is not a crisis of our making. But it is the crisis that we face and we must deal with it,” chief executive Warren East said in a statement announcing that Rolls would cut nearly one-fifth of its global workforce. “Our airline customers and airframe partners are having to adapt and so must we.” Rolls said it expected “the loss of at least 9,000 roles” from a global workforce of 52,000 and would also cut “expenditure across plant and property, capital and other indirect cost areas”. The measures would hand the company annual savings of more than £1.3 billion ($1.6 billion, 1.4 billion euros). The restructuring will meanwhile cost Rolls about £800 million. Rolls said the restructuring would predominantly affect its civil aerospace business. “Our defence business, based in the UK and US, has been robust during the pandemic, with an unchanged outlook, and does not need to reduce headcount,” it added. Rolls has already spent the past two years cutting thousands of management roles following weak demand for its power systems used by the marine industry. “The restructuring announced on 14 June 2018 will transition into this wider proposed reorganisation,” Rolls said Wednesday. “Focused predominantly on reducing the complexity of our support and management functions, the programme has substantially delivered on its objectives.” The new cull comes as global air travel remains virtually non-existent, even as governments start to ease their lockdowns. With planes grounded worldwide, airlines are slashing thousands of jobs. “Being told that there is no longer a job for you is a terrible prospect,” East added on Wednesday. “But we must take difficult decisions to see our business through these unprecedented times.” [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Computer and printer maker, HP, on Friday announced plans to cut between 7,000 and 9,000 jobs as part of a restructuring initiative. October 4, 2019 In "Business" THE automotive world is so dynamic that one can't tell what would be invented tomorrow. From flying to self-driven cars, no one can tell what next would be added in the nearest future. But the latest trend at the moment is that traditional sport, saloon and pure luxury car makers… May 18, 2018 In "Motoring" BRITAIN’s Serious Fraud Office (SFO) has widened its investigation into Rolls-Royce to examine allegations of suspected bribery in Nigeria, the Financial Times reported yesterday. May 20, 2016 In "Business"