Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan said, on Tuesday, that the investigation being carried out by the Senate into the finances of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, was to complement the ongoing forensic audit which was ordered by the Federal Government. Lawan, while inaugurating a seven-man ad-hoc committee on alleged financial recklessness in the NDDC, said: “We are in total support of the President’s directive for the forensic audit of the finances of NDDC, and this is, in some way, complementary to that directive.” The investigation, he said, would avail the management of the commission an opportunity to defend the allegations against it. Lawan said: “We have no predetermined position on the outcome of this investigation as an institution. Issues raised are allegations, therefore, the NDDC has the opportunity to come forward and defend its position. “But we have a mindset and our mindset in the Senate is that we have to have an NDDC that is effective and efficient in service delivery to the people of Niger Delta. This is the essence of setting up that commission. “So we want to see a situation where the very limited resources that are appropriated for the NDDC are prudently and transparently deployed for the development of the Niger Delta region. “This is our mindset and we will not shy away from our responsibility at any time we feel a sense that that is not happening.” He said the NDDC, as a pioneer intervention agency in the country, should take the lead on how its intervention could be effective, efficient and meet the yearnings of the people. In his remarks, chairman of the ad-hoc committee, Senator Olubunmi Adetumbi, described the allegations that necessitated the setting up of the committee as “numerous and weighty as it involved misapplication and misappropriation of N40 billion” among others. He assured the Senate leadership of the committee’s resolve to be open-minded. Vanguard ABUJA- PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan on Tuesday inaugurated the ad-hoc Committee that is probing into alleged Financial Recklessness to the tune of N40 billion by the Interim Management Committee, IMC of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. May 12, 2020 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has reversed himself on the appointment of the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, saying that the Senate should wait for him for a new list of  board members that he would send for Confirmation by the Upper Chamber. January 28, 2020 In "News" ABUJA- THE Senate has thrown its weight behind the three-man Committee put in place to oversee the management of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC commission to create an enabling environment for the audit. February 12, 2020 In "News"