Paris Saint Germain could line-up with an attacking three of Cristiano Ronaldo, Mauro Icardi and Neymar next season. The Ligue 1 side could be plotting an outrageous move for Ronaldo this summer after owner Nasser Al-Khelaifi dropped a hint earlier this week. The Portuguese star, 35, is back in Turin after spending lockdown in his native Madeira – and was seen reporting for training on Tuesday morning. The Qatari chief mentioned Ronaldo in the same breath as “transformative” PSG legends Zlatan Ibrahimovic and David Beckham, subtly hinting at another ambitious swoop. Al-Khelaifi told France Football: “[Ronaldo] remains motivated by this desire to improve every day and he always pushes his limits. “I admire this relentless will, he is a great example for all athletes of the future.” Ronaldo could join Neymar – who looks set to stay – and Icardi at the Parc des Princes, with the Juventus star a replacement for Real Madrid target Kylian Mbappe. Los Blancos chiefs are hoping to team Mbappe up with Eden Hazard and Erling Haaland to form a new Galacticos-worthy front-three. Since last summer Neymar has made no bones about his desire to go “home” to Barcelona. But due to the coronavirus pandemic, it’s unlikely Barca will be able to afford him. In fact, the Spanish giants are plotting a mass sale of all players – with only Lionel Messi and Marc-Andre ten Stegen safe – in order to fund their summer moves. But Neymar could be happy to stay if it means playing alongside Ronaldo on the opposite wing, with loan star Icardi in the middle. Vanguard Cristiano Ronaldo's "extraordinary strength of character" has been hailed by Paris Saint-Germain president Nasser Al-Khelaifi. A five-time Ballon d'Or winner, Ronaldo has claimed league titles with Manchester United, Real Madrid and current club Juventus. The 35-year-old forward has also won five Champions League trophies – four with Madrid and one… May 19, 2020 In "Sports" Cristiano Ronaldo returned to training with Juventus in Turin on Tuesday after an absence of over two months because of the coronavirus pandemic. The 35-year-old arrived at the Juventus Training Centre in a Jeep with tinted windows around 09:20 (0720 GMT), leaving three hours later with a smile and thumbs… May 19, 2020 In "Sports" Having agreed to move to the Serie A champions after nine years at Real Madrid, the Portuguese is putting the finishing touches to a switch in Turin. July 16, 2018 In "News"