Sex for Role: Nollywood film maker, Uche Agbo may have finally revealed what most filmmakers face in the hands of actors and actresses, who are desperate for fame. In a meeting with this reporter, the film maker, who is also an author of books and a motivational speaker, revealed that despite him flaunting his wedding ring around whenever he was on set, actresses still “give me signals”. “We operate a porous movie industry whereby anybody can just come up and says he is an actor!” He lamented. “Truth be told, I don’t ask actresses to give me sex before getting a movie role. If you are on my set, then you earned it! You can’t get to my set through my bed. Most desperate actresses would send me messages on Whatsapp saying they will do anything to be on my set! Can you beat that! Even on set, with my wedding ring on, they still throw advances at me!” Uche lamented. In another development, Uche Agbo who is also the organizer of the Coal City film festival, that was to be held between last month and this month, has revealed that the organizers of the festival which would attract movie makers around the world to Enugu will announce a new date for the festival. The festival according to him, is a way of celebrating Enugu state for being there for Nollywood right from the early nineties to present. Uche Agbo, who is currently the Secretary-General of the Directors Guild of Nigeria, DGN, says Tyler Perry, the American movie maker, is his mentor. He aspires to be at par with Tyler, in just a few years time. VANGUARD Beautiful mother of two, Uche Iwuanyanwu Nnannah is set for a great comeback to Nollywood after taking two years off to raise a family. Uche, who has taken up some raunchy roles in the past, is now a mother and a wife. In this interview she talks about her plans… October 21, 2017 In "Entertainment" Blessed with good looks, Uche Iwuanyanwu is one of the rising actresses in Nollywood you cannot help but admire for her professional exploits. In this interview, she talks about her blossoming career, and why she prefers to star in Ghanaian movies and many more... August 10, 2013 In "Showtime People" MERCY Macjoe hasn’t been around for more than three years but her profile is so rich, many stand agape wondering how she managed it. Her first appearance in a movie turned out to be a lead role and that’s a record that cannot be found laying around in Nollywood. March 15, 2014 In "Home Video People"