Ado-Ekiti—Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has said the state’s Covid-19 testing centre, would commence operation before the end of the week. Dr. Fayemi disclosed an on-the-spot assessment of facilities at the expanded Infectious Disease Unit at the Oba Adejugbe General Hospital, Ado-Ekiti. “This week, we will be formally launching our testing centre at the teaching hospital. So, I’m confirming it to you.” Governor Fayemi told journalists after the inspection. He explained that the testing centre would help the state test as many people as possible as part of the government’s efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus in the state. The expansion of the state’s isolation centre to a 100 -bed capacity is a proactive step to prepare against a possible surge in the number of patients. The Governor, who put the present capacity of the centre for Covid-19 patients at ten beds, stated that the state already has ten active patients, while the results of some contacts were being expected. The development, according to him, has justified the government’s plan to expand the centre to a 100-bed capacity. According to Fayemi, “We are expanding our infectious disease hospital bed space, as you know we have just ten-bed space in the one we are using now but there is an increase and we have to prepare for the worse while we hope for the best. “We want a reduction in the number of Covid-19 positive patients in the state, but right now, we have about ten active cases, that means all our beds there are fully occupied. So, we have had to then expand to a hundred- bed space. So, if we have any additional patients, we are prepared for them” Laments infidelity of security personnel at borders Kayode Fayemi By Rotimi Ojomoyela - Ado-Ekiti The Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, on Saturday, revealed that a 29- year old woman from Lagos, has fallen victim to the third case of COVID -19 case recorded in the state. The governor also… April 18, 2020 In "News" Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti on Saturday said there may be another extension of the current lockdown following the discovery of a new case of COVID-19 in the state. Fayemi, at a media briefing in Ado Ekiti, confirmed the new case earlier announced by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control… April 18, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Babalola donates N100m to fund By Rotimi Ojomoyela - Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Government on Friday disclosed that the second  COVID -19 patient in the State has tested negative and discharged from the isolation centre. The 23-year-old man was detected to be a victim of the deadly disease a couple… April 10, 2020 In "News"