A Professor of Veterinary Microbiology at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Prof Haruna M Kazeem has urged Nigerians to consume eggs in order to benefit from their advantages. Kazeem who noted that despite eggs being a well-known source of protein and quite affordable, benefits of egg consumption are often understated. The University Don, said eggs present a very good example of what constitutes a nutrient-rich food source. “The size of the egg pales in comparison to the numerous gains of its consumption. Eggs contain all the basic nutrients needed in the human body to function optimally and are considered a complete diet. One large egg contains Vitamins A, B2 (Riboflavin), B5 (Pantothenic Acid), B12 (Cobalamin), and Selenium. An egg also contains 77 calories, 6 grams of quality protein, 5 grams of fat as well as bits of carbohydrates. Eggs are a good source of protein that helps regulate the blood sugar level of the human body. They also contain essential nutrients and calories for the healthy growth and development of children and are also very good for pregnant women. They are a natural source of key nutrients such as Omega-3 fatty acids and Choline.” He described Choline as a nutrient that increases the growth of cell membranes and also essential for brain and spinal cord formation in infants. The University Don added that Choline plays a role in reducing the risk of certain birth defects while also boosting the brain and nerve function, metabolism, memory, and the transportation of nutrients throughout the body. “Eggs are rich in Lutein and Selenium, both of which are believed to play a protective role in reducing the risk of certain eye diseases, such as cataracts and eye strain. These antioxidants found in eggs reduce the risk of macular degenerations which are among the leading causes of vision impairment and blindness among the elderly. Eggs also provide us with very high-quality protein that contains all nine essential amino acids in the right quantity, needed by the body for optimum growth and tissue regeneration. Consumption of eggs also helps the prevention of stroke while leading to improved cholesterol levels. They repair worn-out cells and tissues, replace muscle fibers and enhance growth” he said. Kazeem further said that the vitamins contained in eggs help maintain the body’s defense against infections, thereby also enhancing the human body’s immune system. He further stated that it was safe for adults to eat up to three eggs per day. According to him, the type of cholesterol found in eggs is known as High-Density Lipoprotein adding that it is good for the heart. According to him, eggs raise the High-Density Lipoprotein levels in the bloodstream, thereby clearing the arteries and the circulatory system for improved blood flow. vanguard Everybody should eat eggs, children in particular because eggs are not just good to eat but very nutritious. So good are eggs for nutrient health that the World Health Organisation, WHO, recommends that every healthy individual should eat one egg daily for optimal health. October 12, 2015 In "News" Everybody should eat eggs, children in particular because eggs are not just good to eat but very nutritious. So good are eggs for nutrient health that the World Health Organisation, WHO, recommends that every healthy individual should eat one egg daily for optimal health. October 9, 2015 In "Health" By Francis Ewherido In August last year, we read about the collapse of the marriage between the Oni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi and Olori Wuraola Zaynab. Then last week we read about the marriage of the Oni to his new Olori, Naomi Oluwaseyi. Some people wondered why a prophetess… October 27, 2018 In "Marriage and Family"