As part of President Muhammadu Buhari’s agenda to reduce unemployment rate in the country, the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Mr Festus Keyamo (SAN), said that the Federal Government has agreed to pay the sum of twenty thousand naira, (20,000), to unemployed youths, for three months, to maintain public and social infrastructures in the country. Disclosing this at a news conference, Keyamo opined: “The pilot programme earlier approved by Mr. President was designed to mitigate lack of job opportunities in the rural areas through a short-term engagement of 1,000 unemployed persons per local government area for a period of three months. “It is a dry season/off-season transient job programme and was originally designed for the rehabilitation/maintenance of public and social infrastructure. Participants were to be paid an allowance of N20,000 monthly and were to be recruited largely from the pool of unskilled persons resident in those rural areas. “Some have asked me why there’s  no registration portal for the 1000 jobs per LGA. My answer is, our real targets for these jobs are mostly unskilled rural workers who may not be literate enough & who can’t have access to any portal. The elites think everything is now by internet. “Whilst it is inexpedient to ask largely illiterate, itinerant workers to go on the internet & register for jobs through a portal, we shall surely upload their full names & information AFTER RECRUITMENT on a website for all to see. The monitoring process would be very transparent”. Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Abuja Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, SAN, has threatened to resign from the President Muhammadu Buhari's administration if the approved recruitment of 774, 000 people is hijacked by politicians. The Minister, issued the threat on Wednesday while inaugurating the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Extended… April 30, 2020 In "News" Minister says Obaseki destined to win In furtherance of the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration’s job creation and empowerment drive, over 5,000 Edo residents, including youths and women, have benefited from the Federal Government’s rural area engagement programme, tagged Special Public Works (SPW). The pilot phase of the programme was flagged… February 27, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian government has expressed its willingness to partner with the British Government in tackling unemployment and creating job opportunities for young persons in the country. The Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Dr Festus Keyamo, stated this when the Political Counsellor, British High Commission, Mr Dominic Williams, paid… October 5, 2019 In "Jobs"