United States President, Donald Trump, broke with tradition Thursday by calling for investigation of his White House predecessor Barack Obama in the latest attempt to push a conspiracy theory about his Democratic opponents. Washington operates under unwritten rules that presidents and ex-presidents avoid public clashes. However, Trump, less than six months from a volatile reelection showdown, called for Obama to testify in the Senate over a conspiracy theory he has dubbed “Obamagate.” The claim is that Obama’s administration and a “deep state” tried to scuttle Trump’s presidency using probes into his contacts with Russian entities. “Just do it,” Trump tweeted, addressing Senator Lindsey Graham, one of his most loyal Republican allies, who chairs the powerful Senate judiciary committee. “The first person I would call to testify about the biggest political crime and scandal in the history of the USA, by FAR, is former President Obama,” Trump said in the tweet. Shortly after, Obama appeared to respond on Twitter, writing simply: “vote.” And Graham poured cold water on Trump’s idea, telling Politico: “I don’t think now’s the time for me to do that. I don’t know if that’s even possible.” However, Trump is set to keep pushing his “Obamagate” agenda as he works overtime to stir enthusiasm in his right-wing base ahead of the November 3 presidential election. Among the figures, he is now targeting is Obama’s vice president Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic challenger this November. The conspiracy theory seeks to turn on its head a two-year investigation led by special counsel Robert Mueller into Trump’s Russia contacts. Mueller determined that Trump and his election campaign had extensive, sometimes murky contacts with Russians, and that Moscow directly interfered in the tense 2016 election. But he said there was no hard evidence of collusion between the two sides. Trump has called for punishing the probe’s backers, calling the entire affair a “hoax.” Despite saying that he was “greatly concerned by the precedent that would be set by calling a former president” to testify, Graham promised to hold hearings in June on the Russia-Trump investigation in general. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The Clintons killed financier Jeffrey Epstein in jail, Barack Obama was secretly born in Africa... the wacky list of conspiracy theories promoted by President Donald Trump knows few limits. August 13, 2019 In "News" Donald Trump's jaw-dropping White House win is a slap in the face for Barack Obama, elected eight years ago as the country's first black president on the promise of a nation united. November 9, 2016 In "News" Two U.S. State Department officials will testify before House of Representatives investigators in the impeachment inquiry against President Donald Trump on Wednesday while lawmakers prepare to weigh rules formalizing the impeachment process ahead. Ukraine specialists Catherine Croft and Christopher Anderson are set to appear before  House committees a day after… October 30, 2019 In "Foreign"