As numbers and mortality continues to rise in the country in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic,   it is more critical than ever to keep families safe from the kitchen first and foremost Three major nutrients have been identified as being particularly essential in the building of the body’s natural immunity to the coronavirus; experts say they should be present in all foods The most popular sources of vitamin C in our part of the world are citrus fruits,i.e., oranges,   lemon, and lime. 100g of orange contains 53.2mg of vitamin C, which means an orange a day provides enough of the nutrient per day.   But oranges are not the best source of vitamin C. Bell peppers are,   and always in season. Mangoes,   which are in season now, are an excellent source. Anti-inflammatory foods Since COVID-19 is partly an inflammatory condition, a diet rich in foods that fight inflammation has been recommended by experts. While ginger,   which is commonplace in our part of the world,   is being widely used,   There are many others that are more effective. Fatty fish such as Mackerel,   avocado, and nuts are super anti-inflammatory foods,   and walnuts are in season! Vitamin D This once relegated vitamin is now so desirable and can be got directly from the sun between 10 am and 11 am as is popularly known.   But there are actually foods rich in this vitamin,   including mushrooms, cod liver oil, liver, and cheese. vanguard More evidence-based diagnoses are emerging about the pathophysiology of COVID-19, and the right protocol for its management. The recent being intravascular coagulation (thrombosis), diagnosed via autopsies performed on patients who died of COVID-19 in Italy. Thrombosis is the formation of a blood clot, known as a thrombus, within a blood vessel.… April 29, 2020 In "Health" Desperate to avoid coming down with a winter cold or worse, plenty of us will be dosing up on vitamin C supplements — and doctors in China are even looking into its effectiveness against coronavirus. March 7, 2020 In "Health" It boosts brains, combats sepsis and tackles colds… no wonder China’s doctors are racing to test its effects on deadly outbreak. Desperate to avoid coming down with a winter cold or worse, plenty of us will be dosing up on vitamin C supplements — and doctors in China are even looking into… March 9, 2020 In "Health"