The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, PSN, on Wednesday, appealed to the Federal Government to extend the recent import waiver on medical supplies by President Mohammadu Buhari to all essential drugs and not only those related to COVID-19. Stating this in Lagos, the President of the PSN, Pharm. Sam Ohuabunwa said the extension of the waiver to all essential drugs was necessary since there is no established treatment protocol all over the world for the novel coronavirus. Stating that clinicians have continued to employ combinations of a different drug regimen to treat the manifested symptoms,  Ohuabunwa maintained that the extension should be effected to all as most of the repurposed medications are already in use by other patients leading to pressure on the supply chain thereby instigating price increase. “Nigerians who are on lockdown have reduced disposable income to buy medicines. The government is giving food palliative but no medicine palliative. Removing duties and levies on all essential medicines will be one way to provide a medical palliative for the Nigerian poor. “Finally, the most vulnerable for COVID-19 infection, the aged population, already have some underlying chronic diseases and are on essential medicines like antidiabetics, antihypertensive, and anticancer medications.” He added that with the blow of the COVID-19 on the world’s economy, Nigerians would find it difficult to maintain optimal health if the entire cost of medication is unleashed on them. The PSN president commended President Buhari for the timely interventions and implored him to ensure strict implementation of the order, adding that PSN would not hesitate to point the way to other low hanging fruits towards the realisation of the world best practises in pharmaceutical care. He said the pharmaceutical industry welcomed with utmost delight and satisfaction the order by the President, for a blanket waiver on medical supplies and expedited clearing of all imported health care equipment, medical and pharmaceutical supplies at the ports. He recalled that the PSN had earlier appreciate the CBN on the 100 Billion intervention funds to the Pharmaceutical industries for growth stimulation and also appealed to the President for import duty waiver for pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, and speedy clearing of pharmaceuticals from the nation’s ports as we battle the COVID-19 pandemic. vanguard Lauds CBN, Bankers Committee on N100b loan package By Chioma Obinna To mitigate the shortage of essential drugs, the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigerian, PSN, on Thursday, appealed to the Federal government in the interim to issue directives to the Custom services to grant expedited clearance of health care and pharmaceutical… March 27, 2020 In "Health" By Chioma Obinna As the world marks this year’s World Malaria Day, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, PSN, has identified malaria infection as one risk factor that would increase the case fatality of COVID-19 even as it noted that about 97 per cent of the country’s population was at risk of… April 24, 2020 In "Health" ....Donates palliatives, sanitizers to the less-privileged homes By Harris Emanuel, Uyo Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) Akwa Ibom State Branch has threatened to halt pharmaceutical services over alleged incessant harassment of Health Professionals on essential duties by security operatives in the state. State Chairman of PSN, Dr Akwaowo Akpabio made… April 23, 2020 In "News"