Managing Director/Chief Executive, Heritage Bank Limited, Mr. Ifie Sekibo, has advised Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to reinvent themselves in order to remain competitive and overcome the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking on “Converting ideas into reality with focus on SME’s”, Sekibo also stressed the need for SMEs to continually embrace partnership and function as an integral part of a value chain. He said: “For SMEs to strive, they must continually re-invent themselves, one big plus for SMEs is that they are quite small, and they can easily change. Cooperation is key at this very time. I advocate always, competition is good but complementing each other is better, it comes with value chain principle. “When you plan yourself in a value chain, you gain more because the big dinosaurs need the small SMEs to survive. The economy of Nigeria needs the SME to survive. I recommend that partnerships are developed in the space of SMEs, one-man business find it difficult to survive in an economy that is changing on daily basis or even hourly. If you want to remain viable, your dreams being viable, partnerships are good way to go.” Sekibo also counselled SMEs on the need to adapt to the realities of a new world occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, especially the increased adoption of electronic channels (E-Channels) for productivity and product marketing. He said: “The truth is that even after this pandemic, we can never return to the normal way because this is the new normal and in our desperation to find solution, mistakes abound, failures will set in and most of us will hide from our failures other than face it.” Vanguard News Nigeria The Managing Director of Heritage Bank Plc, Mr. Ifie Sekibo, has said that inability to employ strategies that will make their businesses attractive to banks rather than finance is the major problem of small and medium enterprises in the country. March 17, 2014 In "Business" Heritage Bank Limited is committed to building a network of Entrepreneurial Leaders necessary to drive the growth of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Nigeria Managing Director/Chief Executive of Heritage Bank, Mr. Ifie Sekibo stated this adding that the bank has developed and introduced wide range of services which… May 11, 2015 In "Finance" MANAGING Director and Chief Executive Officer of Heritage Bank, Mr. Ifie Sekibo, has called on financial institutions and the three tiers of government to support agriculture and small and medium scale businesses to fast track the nation’s quest to move from poverty to prosperity. October 29, 2018 In "Business"