Manchester United great Ryan Giggs is attempting to mimic some elements of “fantastic” Liverpool with his Wales side. Nobody has made more appearances for the Old Trafford giants than the 46-year-old, having represented the club 963 times between 1990 and deciding to hang up his boots to focus on coaching in 2014. Giggs models a lot of his management on Sir Alex Ferguson, particularly when it comes to standards and discipline, and learned a lot working as assistant manager to Louis van Gaal. The United great highlighted the work being done by Manchester United’s rivals, telling Laureus: “In our league, at the moment we have fantastic managers, obviously Jurgen Klopp, Pep Guardiola. “I was fortunate to spend two years under Louis Van Gaal at Manchester United, so I learned a lot from Louis who was very similar with Sir Alex regarding standards, regarding discipline,” he added. “With the obvious pause in the season because of Covid-19, I think there’s a lot of questions still to be answered. “But I think what we have seen this year is Liverpool are a fantastic team, managed by a great coach Jurgen Klopp and, it pains me to say it as a United fan, but they have been fantastic this season. “Obviously they’ll go on and, whatever way it is, they’ll win the league and deserve it. “They’ve had two brilliant seasons actually, last year pushing Man City all the way. They’re a great team to watch. “There were certain things that I’ve taken out of the way that Liverpool play, and taking it on to the way that I want to do with Wales. “Hopefully United will bridge that gap and catch them up. But you have to give credit where credit is due and Liverpool have been fantastic this season.” Football 365 Vanguard Former Manchester United great Ryan Giggs said Monday he was "itching" to get back into football after being unveiled as the new Wales boss -- his first permanent managerial post. January 15, 2018 In "News" Ryan Giggs hailed Gareth Bale as the greatest Welsh player he has seen after the Real Madrid star inspired his club's Champions League final victory over Liverpool. May 30, 2018 In "Sports" Ryan Giggs, who is set to make his 1,000th appearance in senior football this weekend, has signed a new one-year contract at Manchester United, the club announced on Friday. March 1, 2013 In "Sports"