Mauricio Pochettino insisted Friday that he was “happy” that Jose Mourinho replaced him as Tottenham coach. Mourinho took over in November despite Pochettino having enjoyed a successful five-and-a-half-year spell in charge of the London side. “I am so happy that he is at Tottenham, replacing me,” admitted Pochettino who is now officially off the payroll at Spurs after his six-month gardening leave ended. That leaves him free to take other jobs without the worry of prospective employers having to pay compensation. “And of course I am happy as well to leave the club in the way that we left it, with all the facilities that are the best in the world. “For sure, he is very grateful for the way that we helped to build the club, which is now his club.” Potchettino recalled how he and Mourinho had forged a close relationship during their days as rivals in Spain’s La Liga. “With Jose, we know each other for a long time,” he explained. “When I was the coach of Espanyol, and he was at Real Madrid, we had a very good relationship. “He’s a top coach. And in life, look what happens. I always think I’d replace him. “He was at Real Madrid. I say, ‘Oh, maybe one day I can take your place at Real Madrid’, and look at how life works out! He has taken my place at Tottenham. Unbelievable, eh?” VANGUARD Jose Mourinho has suggested that he won't be looking to make wholesale changes to the Tottenham squad in the January transfer window, instead insisting that the "best gift" are the players already at the club. The Portuguese was announced as the new Spurs boss on Wednesday morning, just 11 hours… November 21, 2019 In "Sports" Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino has refused to rule out replacing Jose Mourinho at Manchester United. December 19, 2018 In "Sports" Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino says Jose Mourinho is an inspiration despite his current frustrations at Manchester United as he prepares his side for Monday's Premier League clash at Old Trafford. August 27, 2018 In "Sports"