The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has suspended the Spectrum Trading Guidelines 2018 for the Nigerian telecommunications industry. The position was taken at a recent meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Commission and urged all licensed telecommunications operators, prospective investors, industry stakeholders and the general public to take note. In a statement signed by the Director, Public Affairs of the Commission, Dr. Henry Nkemadu said the decision was in response to telecommunications global dynamics as well as the efforts to optimally utilize and maximize the benefits of the Spectrum scarce resource. According to the statement, the board had earlier taken the decision for Spectrum Trading in response to telecommunications global dynamics as well as the efforts to optimally utilize and maximize the benefits of the Spectrum scarce resource. Spectrum is a scarce commodity which when inefficiently utilized greatly limits broadband coverage and speeds. The current Spectrum Trading Guidelines were developed in 2018 after industry-wide consultations and this instrument allows that the Spectrum resource be traded on the Secondary Market through Transfer, Sharing or Leasing upon satisfying stipulated regulatory conditions. The Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NNBP) 2020 – 2025 launched by President Muhammadu Buhari, in Abuja in March 2020 requires that these Guidelines be reviewed to ensure that unutilized Spectrum is fairly traded and to facilitate rollout by other operators amongst others. This is to address the need for ubiquitous broadband deployment to accelerate penetration and access in line with the economic Agenda of the Federal Government. ‘‘In accordance with the NNBP 2020 – 2025, for optimal use of spectrum, licensees have the obligation of the Use it or Lose It Policy because idle high demand spectrum does a disservice to poorly served populations and should be released for effective use as may be required to Promote Efficient Use of assigned Spectrum.’’ ‘‘The ‘Use it or Lose it’ rule should, therefore, apply in all instances where assigned spectrum is found to be non-utilized or underutilized and ensures unutilised spectrum is fairly traded to facilitate rollout by other operators. ‘‘In response to the need for the review of these Guidelines as highlighted above, and also following Paragraph 12 of the Spectrum Trading Guidelines, 2018 which vests the Commission with the right to review/vary and modify these Guidelines from time to time as it may deem fit, the Spectrum Trading Guidelines 2018 application in Nigeria is hereby suspended until further notice, as declared by the Board,’’ it added. Vanguard News Nigeria The proposed acquisition of Visafone operating licence by MTN, to enable it have authorised access to the defunct Code Division Multiple Access, CDMA operator’s 800MHz spectrum band is not going down well with other telcos in the country.The issue which resulted in a legal battle between MTN and another operator… June 27, 2018 In "News" Two major telecom operators in the country, 9Mobile and Barti Airtel, yesterday, publicly opposed the proposed transfer of operating licence and resources, including 800MHz spectrum, from Visafone Communication Limited to MTN Nigeria. June 26, 2018 In "Business" It may not be business as usual for operators who do not make use of their spectrum long after acquiring them. This is sequel to Federal Government's recent hints that it would take decisive action against operators of unused spectrums. December 14, 2016 In "News"