If the ‘Bill on Protection against Infectious Diseases 2020’ presently in the Senate is signed into law, anyone found transporting a corpse of someone who died of infectious disease would pay a fine of N2 million. The bill was sponsored by the Chairman, Senate Committee on Primary Health Care and Communicable Diseases, Senator Chukwuka Utazi and the Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Senator Ibrahim Oloriegbe, with 102 senators as co-sponsors. According to the document obtained yesterday by  Sunday Vanguard, “the minister may for the purpose of preventing the spread or possible outbreak of infectious disease, by notification in the gazette shall declare any premises to be an isolation area. “A notification under subsection (1) shall be effective until the expiration of such period as may be specified in the notification which shall not exceed a period of 21 days unless renewed or until it is revoked by the minister, whichever occurs first. “The Director-General may, pursuant to subsection (1) above and in relation to an isolation area, by written order, prohibit any person or class of persons from entering or leaving the isolation area without the permission of the Director-General, prohibit or restrict the movement within the isolation area of any person or class of persons, prohibit or restrict the movement of goods, require any person or class of persons to report at specified times and places and submit to such medical examinations, answer such questions and submit to such medical treatment as his condition warrants.” Vanguard A re-titled Controversial Bill on Control of Infection Diseases Bill 2020 was Tuesday, introduced in the Senate following the outbreak of the Coronavirus COVID-19 that is ravaging the world. May 5, 2020 In "News" A re-titled Bill on Control of Infection Diseases Bill 2020 was yesterday introduced in the Senate, following the outbreak of coronavirus or COVID-19 in the country. May 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" One thing most Nigerians are united on this period is how to curb the spread of the rampaging coronavirus pandemic in the country. While states are adopting several measures to curtail the spread in their territory, the president on Sunday, announced a lockdown of Lagos, Abuja and Ogun state. Although… April 2, 2020 In "Law & Human Rights"