Nigeria’s leading Laundry care Manufacturer, Henkel donated cartons of Nittol antibacterial detergent to frontline health care workers in Lagos State as part of its support to Government led-efforts in curbing the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the most populous city in Africa. The donation, according to Henkel, is part of its support to the Nurses in the state in mitigating the challenges of the Corona Virus (COVID- 19) pandemic and alleviating the risks associated with their exposure to patients undergoing treatment in the state. The donation, which included cartons of Nittol antibacterial detergent and Nittol multi-purpose laundry soap was received on behalf of the commissioner of health, Prof. Akin Abayomi by the Director, Lagos state Health Service Commission Mrs. Olaide Animashaun and the Director, Lagos state nursing services Mrs. Dorcas Shonibare Mr. Olumide Aniyikaiye, Head of Marketing for Henkel in Nigeria who represented the Managing Director Mr. Rajat Kapur, said “In view of the current outbreak of COVID-19 in Nigeria and the challenging socio-economic and public health realities, it has become imperative for us at Henkel as a socially responsible organization to support the efforts of the government in helping to cushion the effects of the pandemic on Lagos residents.” We commend the combined efforts of the Federal, Lagos and other states and notably the Lagos state ministry of health and the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as well as the Nurses who are particularly the front-liners and mostly at the risk of infection and community transmission. Nittol Antibacterial Laundry Detergent can be used on numerous surfaces including door-knobs, stair railing, floors, kitchen slabs, table tops, bathrooms and toilets surfaces, washing of clothes as well as dishes to maintain a healthy and hygienic environment and more importantly, Nittol multipurpose soap can also be used for washing of the hands. We are optimistic that this donation will support the overall effort of the Lagos state government to stem the tide of coronavirus in the state.” He added. Olumide Aniyikaiye also reiterated that this donation is a part of Henkel’s pledge to donate about 10,000 cartons of its Nittol Antibacterial detergent to curtail the spread of the disease across the states and that Henkel will continue to support the public health care workers and the public at all levels to subdue the ravaging pandemic. “On the ground, we are partnering with the NANNM to develop a radio sensitization campaign aimed at promoting good hygiene practices and we have initiated hygiene and medical outreach programs in hospitals and modern trade channels across the country. Henkel operates worldwide with leading brands & technologies in three business areas: Laundry & Home Care, Beauty Care and Adhesive Technologies. In its Laundry & Home Care and Beauty Care businesses, Henkel holds leading positions in many markets and categories around the world. Founded in 1876, Henkel looks back on more than 140 years of success. Henkel operates in Nigeria as Expand Global Industries Limited and is known for leading Detergent brands WAW and Nittol. LAGOS—THE General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adeboye has donated some medical supplies to the Lagos State Government to support its efforts in equipping  medical staff with necessary protective gears needed to contain the coronavirus pandemic. April 1, 2020 In "News" LAGOS—The Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, and National Association of Resident Doctors, NARD, yesterday rejected plans by the Federal Government to invite Chinese doctors into the country, describing it as an embarrassment to their members and health workers in the country. April 6, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Nkiruka Nnorom The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor E.A Adeboye, on Monday donated some medical supplies to the Lagos State government to support its quest to effectively contain the coronavirus pandemic in the state. The items include 8,000 hand sanitizers, 8,000 surgical face masks,… March 30, 2020 In "News"