President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, at the State House, Abuja, received the Madagascan native formulation against the Covid-19 pandemic. Buhari, who received the drug when he had audience with President Umaro Sissoco Embalo of Guinea Bissau who brought along with him the samples of the traditional medicine, as shared to African nations by Madagascar, disclosed that he will listen to science before allowing traditional or any new medicines to be administered on Nigerians. He said his position on all such herbal or traditional medicinal postulates had remained the same. “We have our institutions, systems and processes in the country. Any such formulations should be sent to them for verification. I will not put it to use without the endorsement of our institutions” , the President said. On the main reason for his visit, Embalo said, having stabilized his country after the tussles that attended the general elections won by him, he had come to seek counsel from his “father,” Buhari, on his plan for a “government of national unity” and a proposed war against corruption in his country. The Madagascan leader said his government met a country beset by a number of issues and problems, the resolution of which would require tremendous assistance from the “big brother,” Nigeria. “Problems of Guinea Bissau are problems of Nigeria. I have come to you as your son. I need your help and assistance to make the people happy. I will not let you down, neither will I put you in any difficult situation” , he said. In response to the demands, Buhari, according to a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, commended “General” Embalo on his confirmation as President and for stabilizing the country. He said, “I commend your political dexterity in getting the opposition to join the proposed unity government” The President restated the determination of Nigeria to keep West Africa politically stable and promised to support the new government in Guinea Bissau. “I will cooperate and help in every way possible,” he stated. Buhari also used the opportunity of the visit to praise the good work that the President of Niger Republic, Mahamadou Issoufou, who is the current Chairman of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), is doing in the sub-region, and commended him for keeping him informed of all that is happening around. Vanguard ...Says he'll listen to Science By Johnbosco Agbakwuru President Muhammadu Buhari Saturday at the State House, Abuja, received the Madagascan native formulation against the COVID-19 pandemic. President Buhari who received the herbal drug when he had audience with President Umaro Sissoco Embalo of Guinea Bissau who brought along with him… May 16, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru and Omeiza Ajayi – Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari Saturday at the State House, Abuja, while receiving the herbal 'drug' touted by Madagascar's president to cure the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) said he will listen to science before allowing its usage. Buhari who received the Madagascar's herbal drug when… May 16, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" President Muhammadu Buhari has received the Madagascan Covid-19 herbal medicine from President Umaro Sissoco Embalo of Guinea Bissau. May 16, 2020 In "News"