Former President of the Para Powerlifting Federation, Ms Queen Uboh Idris, has given out over N600,000 to 30 powerlifters, coaching crew  and some former para Olympic athletes. The gesture, according to her, is to alleviate the effects of the COVID-19 lockdown. Among the beneficiaries are paralympic gold medalist, Kehinde Paul; 2018 Commonwealth gold medalist, Omolayo Bose; 2016 Rio Olympics gold medalist, Precious Orji; Innocent Nnamdi, Ibrahim Abdulaziz, Solomon Oluwaseun and  Victoria Nneji, among others. Those, who benefited from the coaching crew are coaches Are Feyisetan, Patience Igbiti, Patrick Akutekwe and Pepsuzie Obi Aluko. Each person was credited with the sum of N20,000. Uboh said the money was to assist the athletes to take care of their immediate little needs. According to her, “I am aware that the needs of these physically-challenged athletes will triple as a result of the global lockdown. “Without competitions, they usually don’t earn money and the cancellation of all sporting activities would have affected them a lot “But this is my own little contribution towards alleviating their hardship. I urge them to continue to train individually, so that when the ban is lifted, they will not be competition rusty.” Meanwhile, the family of the late para powerlifter, Ndidi Nwosu, also partook of the palliative. The husband, Ikechukwu Nwosu, received N30,000, besides an earlier N50,000 given to the family. Vanguard Former President of the Para Powerlifting Federation, PPF, of Nigeria Ms Queen Uboh has expressed sadness over the death of one of her athletes and Rio Olympic gold medalist, Ndidi Nwosu. April 2, 2020 In "Sports" Ruel Ishaku, Vice President of the Nigeria Para Powerlifting Federation (NPPF), has confirmed the suspension of its President, Queen Uboh-Idris. Ishaku told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja that this followed speculations that Uboh-Idris resigned immediately after the conclusion of the 3-day Para Powerlifting World Cup… February 10, 2020 In "Sports" THE Nigeria Olympic Committee has selected sports personalities and one serving governor to be honoured with the NOC Merit Award. It is the first of its kind in the country and both the initiators and the recipients are enthusiastic about the ceremony which has been fixed for August 5 at… July 30, 2018 In "Sports"