The number of people infected with the coronavirus is reported to have dropped considerably in Tanzania. It’s delightful news that Tanzanian President John Magufuli is hoping to announce this Sunday. Magufuli stated that one of his sons had contracted the coronavirus, but had now recovered. “As I speak here now, one of my own sons has just recovered from coronavirus disease, and this is after they quarantined and used steam inhalation, took lemons and ginger”, he said. We should have thanksgiving days to thank God for the great things he has done for us. John Magufuli thanked his people for their prayers, citing the names of cities where the number of cured patients had increased. While suggesting that the pandemic was nearing an end, he encouraged Tanzanians to turn to God. “I would like to call upon all our religious leaders from the different faiths in the country that with the current events if possible starting Friday next week, Saturday and Sunday we should have thanksgiving days to thank God for the great things he has done for us”, Magufuli added. Magufuli’s government has been criticized for its lack of transparency regarding COVID-19 figures. The last official update was on April 29. It reported 480 cases, including 16 deaths. AFP Vanguard Tanzanian President, John Magufuli, has called on citizens to turn to God and to keep the economy turning, but as coronavirus cases creep up, calls are rising for the country to take stronger action. While countries across Africa have imposed curfews, partial and full lockdowns, Tanzania has resisted such measures.… April 20, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Tanzanian President John Magufuli on Sunday questioned his country's coronavirus numbers, and called on the authorities to investigate "sabotage" at the national laboratory. The East African country had recorded 480 cases of the virus and 16 deaths at its last update on Wednesday. The government has come under fire from… May 4, 2020 In "News" The Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention on Thursday sought to ease concerns by Tanzania that the country's coronavirus test kits were faulty. Tanzania's President John Magufuli on Monday suspended top officials at the country's national laboratory, after saying he had secretly had animals and fruits tested -- and… May 7, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"