The National Assembly Rivers caucus on Thursday congratulated Dr Peter Odili over the full accreditation of his University of medical sciences for getting National University Commission, NUC full accreditation. In a congratulatory letter jointly signed by Senator George Sekibo and Rep Kingsley Chinda on behalf of the caucus, they described the feat as overwhelming. In the letter, the caucus stated that: “We received with overwhelming joy and gladness the news of the accreditation of all the courses offered by your University, as a people and on behalf of the Rivers men, women, elders, children, youths, residents and indigene-without-borders, whom we represent, we congratulate you and all who contributed in making the rare achievement possible. “We are aware that the University is the pioneer university with a speciality in medical sciences and will contribute to knowledge in the field of medicine and medical sciences. “It could never have come at a better time than now when the world is looking to medical and scientific knowledge and breakthrough to help humanity overcome the current challenge. “Once more we say, Congratulations even as we urge you to keep the flag high and ensure the standards and records already set remain world standard as it gives humanity hope. Please accept our most earnest gratitude as we will continue to identify with the defense of humanity and the excellent standard that this represents. Vanguard News Nigeria Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has declared that his administration will continue to support private initiatives to create access to university education in the state. Speaking during the first founders' day ceremony of Pamo University of Medical Sciences on Monday at Elelenwo, Governor Wike noted that investments in university… February 18, 2020 In "News" You must have read or heard the news of the founding of Pamo University of Medical Sciences PUMS Port Harcourt by former Governor of Rivers state Dr Sir Peter Otunuya Odili. June 2, 2018 In "Entertainment" Vice-Chancellor, University of Medical Sciences, UNIMED, Ondo, Prof. Friday Okonofua, yesterday, assured that the institution will get  full accreditation of the National Universities Commission (NUC) by the end of October. October 7, 2018 In "News"