The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has warned against the exposed plots by certain unpatriotic and disgruntled individuals, allegedly working for the All Progressives Congress (APC), to orchestrate a security situation and push for imposition of a state of emergency in Rivers State. The party said it has been informed of plots by such power hungry politicians to sponsor their misguided youth to unleash violence and unrest in certain parts of the state to create an impression of security breakdown so as to validate their plot for imposition of emergency rule in the state. The PDP said such anti-people elements include some individuals who were rejected by the people of Rivers state in the 2019 governorship election, as well as their godfathers, who believe they have the backing of power mongers at the federal level, and now seek to manipulate situations with the COVID-19 pandemic to cause confusion and push their plot to take over the governance of the state through the back door. It is clear that the actions of the Government of Rivers State under Governor Nyesom Wike in protecting the state against the spread of COVID-19 in the state are targeted at nothing but to protect lives, and such have continued to yield very positive results. Nigerians are also not unaware of the politicization of the fight against COVID-19 by the agents of the Federal Government, who appeared uncomfortable with the management of the pandemic by Rivers State government and other states just because they are controlled by PDP governors. It is instructive for those power mongers to note that this is a time of global pandemic when our country needs her unity. Our party therefore warns those seeking to cause confusion and disaffection to steer clear of Rivers state as they will be firmly resisted. More so, our nation is a democracy and as such it is guided by rules. The PDP however calls on the people of Rivers state to remain calm, alert and united in resisting all attempts by such agents of violence who are seeking to cause trouble in the state. The party also called on security agencies to take note of the development and closely watch the APC and particularly its power-hungry leaders in the state and stop them from their unpatriotic plots. Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Friday warned the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, to desist from any plot that will affect the collation of the Rivers state governorship election results. March 29, 2019 In "News" Peoples  Democratic Party, PDP, said, yesterday, that there was a plot by the Federal Government to foist a one-party system on Nigerians. April 12, 2018 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led government of plotting to impose a state of emergency on Rivers state by inciting violence in the state. March 18, 2016 In "News"