There was pandemonium at the Kwara State House of Assembly as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) member-elect, Hon Abdulraheem Agboola, and his sympathizers barricaded the entrance of the Assembly complex. Vanguard reliably gathered that Hon. Agboola reportedly blocked the main gate of Kwara Assembly complex following his inability to enter the house of assembly located in Asa dam area, Ilorin. It took the intervention of the emissaries from the state commissioner of police, Mr Kayode Egbetokun who prevented the development from degenerating to chaos as the aggrieved member-elect and his supporters were peacefully prevailed upon to allow the house to sit. The Speaker, Hon Yakubu Danladi had refused to swear-in Agboola the only PDP member-elect even after securing victory at Appeal Court and collecting Certificate of Return from Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Recall that the Court of Appeal in December 2019 declared Agboola as the winner of the Ilorin South constituency election, thereby nullifying victory of Hassan Abdulazeez. Meanwhile, Special Assistant on Media to Kwara Assembly Speaker, Sheriff Ibrahim while reacting to the development a few months ago, said there is another court challenging Agboola’s victory. This development however forced the assembly to postpone swearing-in of All Progressives Congress (APC) member-elect, Adam Rufai to represent Patigi State Constituency in the House. Vanguard News Nigeria. A suspended member of Kwara State House of Assembly, Hon. Iliasu Ibrahim, representing Ipaye/Malete/Olooru constituency, who was reinstated by the court was yesterday prevented from entering the assembly complex for the second time in a week. May 1, 2015 In "News" Kwara state governor, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed Tuesday night in Ilorin finally defected from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC)to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). July 31, 2018 In "News" By Demola Akinyemi - Kwara The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwara state has called on the Nigeria Governors' Forum to intervene in the crisis rocking the state house of assembly over an Appeal Court's judgment that affirmed the PDP's Jimoh Agboola as winner of the Ilorin South constituency's elections.… December 17, 2019 In "Politics"