Stallion Group has created a multi-brand virtual space that provides a showroom experience for customers. A statement by the firm said the site was the result of its work with IT experts and developers since the COVID-19 lockdown commenced in March. The online portal features a live chat, where users interact with the Relationship Manager and sections outlined for Hyundai, Nissan, Changan and Porsche. The outbreak of COVID-19 has changed how businesses are done, hence firms are restrategising to meet customers’ needs. This is what Stallion Group, foremost Nigerian automobile distribution company, has achieved with its virtual showroom— stallionafricar.com. Arpita Roy Luthra, General Manager of the Group, gave an insight into how the firm wants to use the portal to maintain close marketing contact with customers. The site, she said, will be launched on Friday, May 29, with the following targets: Highlights on focus-model and all models for sale by brands such as Hyundai, Honda, Nissan, Porsche and Changan; Showcase of features, specifications, aesthetics and price to enable consumers take an informed decision for the best option in their budget, and, Booking a test drive and service, requesting a formal quote and live chat. Vanguard Stallion NMN, authorised Nissan sales company has inaugurated another multimillion billion naira 3S (sales, spares and service) facility in highbrow Victoria Island –Lagos to provide one-stop shopping convenience to customers. March 9, 2015 In "Motoring" Stallion NMN Limited, the Nissan manufacturer and national sales company has been decorated with ISO/TS – 16949:2009 Certification for world class quality management just as its futuristic showroom in Victoria Island Lagos was adjudged the most outstanding ‘Showroom of the Year’ at the 2016 Nigeria Auto Journalists Association (NAJA) Awards. December 8, 2016 In "Motoring" By Theodore Opara Auto firms' donation of COVID-19 palliatives has been commended by the Federal Government. Leading auto companies in the country, such as Stallion Group, CFAO, GAC Motors, Mandilas Group, Weststar Associates, Toyota Nigeria Ltd., Elizade Motors, Innoson Motors and Simba Motors have all contributed in different ways to… May 10, 2020 In "Motoring"