The Inspector-General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu, has reversed the order restricting movement of essential services providers, following the COVID-19 lockdown. On Tuesday, after a virtual meeting, the Inspector-General had directed strict enforcement of inter-state movement restriction and the provisions of the curfew. Following Adamu’s order, essential services providers, especially health workers and journalists, were detained by policemen on Tuesday night, leading to an outcry. In Lagos, many of the detained essential services providers were forced to sleep in their cars at the police stations. Also, Nigeria Medical Association, NMA, Lagos chapter, declared an indefinite strike. They said: “Whereas the directives of President Muhammadu Buhari, through the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, was clear on the exemption of essential workers including doctors and other health workers, the Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu, has been issuing conflicting directives that essential workers, including doctors and other health workers were not exempted.” However, on Wednesday, a statement by DCP Frank Mba, Force Public Relations Officer, reversed the order. It stated that: “All essential workers, including medical personnel, firefighters, ambulance services, journalists, etc, are exempted from the restriction of movement associated with the partial lockdown and national curfew across the federation. “The Inspector-General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu has, therefore, directed all zonal Assistant Inspectors-General of Police and commands’ Commissioners of Police to give effects to these exemptions, while enforcing the restriction orders.” Vanguard …demand written statement on status of essential workers from police By Chioma Obinna The Lagos State branch of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA has directed doctors in state to proceed on an indefinite sit-at-home order to protest what they described as ‘conflicting directives by the government and incessant police harassment’… May 20, 2020 In "Health" Essential workers in Lagos, including doctors and journalists, were, last night, stopped from going about their duties by the Police, in enforcement of the curfew imposed by the Federal Government to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. May 20, 2020 In "News" ....Security agencies are helpless, Senate President ....Condemns breach of order by Nigerians By Henry Umoru, Abuja The Senate yesterday asked the Inspector-General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu and the Commandant-General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC, Abdullahi Gana and heads of all security agencies charged with enforcing… May 12, 2020 In "News"