The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Friday handed over a property forfeited by former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Allison-Madueke, to the Lagos State government for use as an isolation centre for COVID-19 patients. The property comprising six flats of three bedrooms and a boys’ quarter was forfeited by the former minister, following order of Lagos State Federal High in 2017. Speaking during the handover ceremony, the Lagos Zonal Head of the EFCC, Mohammed Rabo stated that the gesture was part of the Commission’s social responsibility efforts towards the fight against the spread of the Coronavirus. He said, “In addition to our mandate to fight economic and financial crimes, the Commission is committed and ready to render essential services that may be required of it in the fight against COVID-19. Therefore, Lagos State should not hesitate to call on the Commission anytime the need for such an essential service arises”. In his remarks, the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, thanked the Commission for the gesture, noting that it was a welcome collaboration between the Federal and Lagos State Government. While assuring the Commission that the property would be put to good use, the governor, appreciated the EFCC for paying attention to the efforts of the state government at containing COVID 19, adding that “part of the challenges we have been facing is getting isolation centres for COVID-19 patients. We will go round the facility to see what we can do to improve on it.”  MR. Olajide Omokore, an ally of former Petroleum Minister, Mrs. Diezani Alison-Madueke, yesterday, lost his bid to recover his property forfeited to the Federal Government by a Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, as his suit was struck out. March 13, 2018 In "News" A Lagos based businessman, Chief Emmanuel Nwude, has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Attorney General of the Federation, Malam Abubakar Malami, to order an investigation into how his properties running into billions of Naira were allegedly sold illegally by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, when Mallam… January 21, 2017 In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC yesterday, withdrew the detention order against Aliyu Ahman Pategi, who stood surety for Ms Jumoke Akinjide, a former Minister of State, Ministry of Federal Capital Territory under President Goodluck Jonathan, after she voluntarily turned herself in at the commission’s office in Ikoy June 21, 2017 In "News"