Fast-rising singer and entrepreneur, Nnakwuzie Raphael Ekene, a.k.a Don Carta is stopping at nothing to make a name for himself on the country’s music scene, despite admitting that the industry is a very tough one. Speaking on his foray into music while in a chat with NollyNow, the Doncarta Group of Companies henchman harped on the toughness of the Nigerian music scene. “It hasn’t been absolutely easy. The music industry is a very tough terrain and one has to be very determined and focused to be able to make it in this industry. However, one thing about doing what you love is that you end up doing it for passion. So, the experience has been bitter-sweet, in all, we thank God. The best part of this work is in the satisfaction that comes with the knowledge that you’re passing across a message to someone somewhere, without having to meet them face to face; and in the fact that the message is a timeless, one which will still be available for someone else to listen to even when you’re gone. Music has always been my first love; before I even thought of making music professionally, listening to good music had always been my escape route. It leaves me fulfilled and calm, so it was my undaunted love for good music that basically propelled me into making one.” On the challenges he has had to grapple with since his debut, he stated; “I guess it should be the fact that I rap majorly in Igbo. But the fusion of English in some of my songs makes it a bit easier to understand, even for someone who isn’t Igbo. Also, there are other challenges; like releasing a new song and not getting the amount of love you thought the song will get, but we keep being steadfast, we keep trying because I for one won’t let little challenges stop me. The most predominant challenge would be the penetration of the southern/western market/audience. One might release a song and it would be so popular in the east but what about other places with other tribes, like Lagos.” However, he admitted that despite the challenges, he has been able to record notable successes. “I have got people who love me and my music. My debut got a whole lot of positive responses. I thank God for that and I believe that I have been able to carve out a niche for myself.” VANGUARD Most of the time, we do it to get attention. I know that if I do something like that, it will be all over the news. That’s all I can say. Go and check Jayz , Beyonce, Davido, Wizkid, DJ Khaleed, nobody ever post stuffs without that intention. If you… May 30, 2015 In "News" Babatunde Oluwadamilare Oyebode popularly known as Baudex, is a man who has his hands in every pie as far as the music business is concerned in Nigeria. Baudex doesn’t just do music, he does the business as well and he knows his onions as much as a biologist knows a… March 18, 2018 In "Interviews" By FLORENCE AMAGIYA Uwale Okoro needs no introduction in the Nigerian music scene. She is a graduate of Performing Arts from Delta State University, Abraka. Wale Adenuga soundtrack “This is Super Story” launched her into limelight. Essence as she is fondly known by her fans and colleagues has used her… May 24, 2014 In "Showtime People"