All is not yet over for former governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Kalu, as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is set for “a fresh and immediate retrial.” Following the Supreme Court’s judgement, voiding Kalu’s 12-year jail term, on Friday, the EFCC has expressed their dissatisfaction and now ready to press more charges against the former governor. In a statement signed by the Head, Media and Publicity of the anti-graft agency, Dele Oyewale, the EFCC described the Supreme Court judgement as “quite unfortunate.” The statement titled: Orji Kalu: EFCC SET FOR FRESH, IMMEDIATE RE-TRIAL, reads: The attention of the Economic And Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has been drawn to the judgment of the Supreme Court nullifying the trial of a former governor of Abia State, Orji Kalu, his firm, Slok Nigeria Limited and Jones Udeogu, a former Director of Finance and Account of Abia State Government and ordering their fresh trial at the lower court. The apex court based its verdict on the grounds that Justice Mohammed Idris, who convicted Kalu and others had been elevated to the Court of Appeal before the judgment and returned to the lower court to deliver the judgment which it considered as illegal. The EFCC considers the judgment of the apex court as quite unfortunate. It is a technical ambush against the trial of the former governor. The Commission is prepared for a fresh and immediate trial of the case because its evidence against Kalu and others are overwhelming. The corruption charges against Kalu still subsist because the Supreme Court did not acquit him of them. The entire prosecutorial machinery of the EFCC would be launched in a fresh trial where justice is bound to be served in due course. Orji Kalu: EFCC SET FOR FRESH, IMMEDIATE RE-TRIAL The attention of the Economic And Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has been drawn to the judgment of the Supreme Court nullifying the trial of a former governor of Abia State, Orji Kalu, his firm, Slok Nigeria Limited
1/ pic.twitter.com/VmjUNfXWF4 — EFCC Nigeria (@officialEFCC) May 8, 2020  Kalu was sentenced to 12 years in prison in 5th December 2019, but the Supreme Court on Friday, 8th May 2020, nullified the verdict, saying that “Federal High Court in Lagos acted without jurisdiction.”  Vanguard The Supreme Court, on Friday, gave the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, the nod to prosecute the former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu on a 107-count corruption charge. March 18, 2016 In "News" The Supreme Court, on Friday, gave the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, the nod to prosecute the former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu on a 107-count corruption charges. March 19, 2016 In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Monday, filed an amended 34-count criminal charge against the former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu. May 16, 2016 In "News"