The Police Command in Ebonyi, has denied alleged media reports of clash between  policemen and soldiers on Thursday in Abakaliki. A section of the media had reported alleged clash between the police and soldiers around Udensi roundabout axis of Abakaliki,  the Ebonyi capital. The clash was as a result of impounding of tricycle allegedly belonging to an army personnel over alleged traffic light control violation. The report alleged that it would have been a day of ‘blood’ in Abakaliki as police and soldiers engaged in a free for all, which was however averted following the timely intervention from very senior police personnel from the command . But, DSP Loveth Odah, the command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Abakaliki, described the report as shocking, spurious and misleading. She said that at no time did police officers clash with men of the Nigerian Army in the state  but explained that there was a little misunderstanding between a soldier and a traffic warden. “There was no clash involving our officers and the army; there is no truth in the media report. “It was not a clash; it was just a minor misunderstanding. A soldier’s brother or friend’s tricycle was impounded by a traffic warden on duty at the Udensi roundabout for alleged traffic light offence. “The suspect called the soldier who came and demanded to know why the tricycle was impounded by the official. “This led to a minor misunderstanding due to arguments which ensued between the soldier and the traffic warden. “The officer-in-charge of the State Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) who was passing by and witnessed the incident, had to stop and settle the problem there and then. “There were no gun shots, there was no fight, it was not even a quarrel and nobody was injured. “The Acting Commissioner of Police did not go there neither did the Canton Commander of the Nkwegu Military Cantonment. “There was indeed nothing like police/soldiers clash in Abakaliki, it was just a mere misunderstanding between the traffic warden who is not even a regular police and one military personnel who came to enquire why the tricycle was impounded,’’Odah said. She said that the force would continue to collaborate with the military and other sister security agencies in the state in the fight to keep the state safe from criminals and criminal activities. vanguardngr.com What could have been a bloody showdown between policemen and soldiers in Abakaliki, capital of Ebonyi state, was quickly nipped in the bud on Saturday. October 16, 2016 In "News" The Ebonyi Police Command has confirmed the clash between its officers and soldiers from the Nigerian Army Cantonment, Nkwagu, near Abakaliki, on Saturday evening. October 16, 2016 In "News" The police command in Cross River on Friday said it had not confirmed any death from the renewed boundary clash between a community in the state and another neighbouring community in Ebonyi. April 5, 2019 In "News"