ABUJA- THE Presidency on Tuesday said that President Muhammadu Buhari has never discriminated against opposition states in matters of security and will not do so now. This explanation came on the heels of the planned military “Operation Accord,” which is set to take off for flush outs bandits in the northwest states. A presidential source stated that despite the Senate resolution on Tuesday, President Buhari has already authorized the Operation Accord but will not give out any details concerning it. According to the Presidential source “The Nigerian Ministry of Defence has concluded plans for the commencement of ‘Operation Accord,’ a major military exercise aimed at flushing out insurgents from the contiguous states of Kaduna, Niger, Katsina,Zamfara, Sokoto and parts of Kebbi State. “While today’s Senate resolution is perfectly in order, it is important to state that in his duty as Commander-in-Chief, President Muhammadu Buhari has already approved the commencement of this operation. “Beyond this announcement, no other details concerning the mode, scope, timings, and other essentials will be revealed so as not to compromise its success. “It is, however, important to outline the fact the all the states of the federation are equal and important before the President. None has suffered any discrimination up to this point, and none will be made to suffer any such discrimination in dealing with security and all other matters on account on their political differences with the government at the center.” Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has given the General Abdulsalami Abubakar-led National Peace Committee, a 72-hour ultimatum to call President Muhammadu Buhari to order over gross violation of the recently signed peace accord by presidential candidates towards the forthcoming 2019 general… January 3, 2019 In "News" As the 7th Senate winds up ahead of the inauguration of the 8th Senate on June 4, the upper legislative chambers is at the moment caught up in a high-level of intrigues, horse-trading and lobbying, backstabbing, in a bid to outwit one another or zone on who becomes the next… April 25, 2015 In "Headlines" There was apprehension in the Maitama area of Abuja yesterday evening after police deployed around the Unity Fountain, the venue where for more than two years, the Bring Back Our Girls, BBOG had on a daily basis gathered to clamour for the quick return of the 219 girls spirited from… September 9, 2016 In "Special Report"