An 82-year-old widow with high blood pressure has recovered from coronavirus disease after receiving nine-day treatment at the Isolation and Treatment Centre, Asubiaro, Osogbo, in Osun State. She was admitted into the state isolation centre having been confirmed positive on the May 13, 2020. The State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Rafiu Isamotu, who disclosed this in a statement released on Friday in Osogbo, said her recovery from the virus beats the odds as elderly people with chronic diseases are the highest risk group because  most of the time they are unable to recover from COVID-19. He noted that the patient who contracted the disease from coming in contact with an infected person showed no symptoms of the virus before her sample was collected except for diarrhoea. Isamotu said: “The story of the 82-year-old widow who recovered from the dreaded coronavirus provides a glimmer of hope, considering that she is a hypertensive patient on medication. “Although when she arrived at our Isolation centre on the 13th of May, she had no cough, difficulty in breathing, sore throat, fever or anosmia associated with the virus except for diarrhoea and we successfully treated her for it and she was stable all through the period of hospitalisation. “On her 9th day on admission, we carried out a follow-up Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test on her and the result came back negative and she was subsequently discharged on the 24th of May, 2020. “Furthermore, a follow-up at her home after her discharge revealed that she was stable”, the Commissioner added. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Osun Government says an 82-year-old woman recovered from the coronavirus disease in the state, against the belief that elderly people with chronic diseases are the highest risk group. Dr Rafiu Isamotu, the State Commissioner for Health, confirmed the recovery in a statement on Friday in Osogbo. Isamotu said that… May 30, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Shina Abubakar - Osogbo Osun State Government on Saturday confirmed the release of four coronavirus patients after testing negative twice in line e with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) protocol. This is as the state lost a patient in her late 60s to the cold hands of death.… May 2, 2020 In "Health" The Osun government on Saturday, said it had discharged another coronavirus patient from its isolation and treatment centre, having recovered fully from the disease. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr Rafiu Isamotu, in a statement in Osogbo, said this brings the number of cases successfully managed and discharged in the… May 16, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"