The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has confirmed that one person died in a head-on collision between two vehicles which occurred along Onitsha-Nteje Expressway in Anambra on Saturday. Mr Andrew Kumapayi, the Sector Commander of FRSC in Anambra, who confirmed the incident to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Awka, said the body of the deceased, a man, had been deposited at Wisdom Funeral Mortuary, Nteje. Kumapayi said the accident which occurred at about 2 a.m. could be attributed to speeding and wrongful overtaking. “The fatal crash involved a Lexus SUV with registration number GGE339FU, whose driver lost his life in the crash and a Mercedes Benz 911 with registration number XA588ENU. “The driver of the Lexus SUV tried overtaking but unfortunately had a head-on collision with the Mercedes Benz 911, which was unable to give way. “The dead victim has been taken to Wisdom Funeral Mortuary Nteje while officers of the FRSC and Nigerian Police Force are on ground controlling traffic and clearing of obstruction caused by the crash,’’ he said. Kumapayi said the vehicles had being towed to the police station for further investigation. The Sector Commander advised road users and motorists to adhere to government’s directives prohibiting night travels from 8p.m. to 6a.m, especially during the period of COVID-19 pandemic. According to him, people should shun night travels because the chances of getting help in the night is less than during the day. While condoling with the family of the dead, he urged drivers to drive with care and desist from speeding, wrongful overtaking and all forms of dangerous driving that could cause road crashes and avoidable deaths. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Anambra State Command of Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, yesterday, confirmed that one person died in an accident involving an 18-seater bus and a tipper-lorry on Nteje-Awka Expressway, in Oyi area of Anambra State. August 13, 2019 In "News" By Vincent Ujumadu One person was confirmed dead, while three others were injured in an accident involving three vehicles on Monday along the Onitsha -Enugu expressway in Anambra State. The incident, which occurred at the Enugu Agidi end of the road involved a black-coloured Honda CRV with registration number GGW… January 20, 2020 In "News" No fewer than 25 passengers including four children on Sunday narrowly escaped death in two separate auto crashes that occurred in Awka and Onitsha, Anambra. August 26, 2019 In "News"