Ugandan music act Gabriel Kakuru popularly known as Gabriel K is among the few African artists with a fairly big CV in the entertainment industry having being a Tv presenter, producer and director over the years. He started singing at a childhood age and living out his dreams of becoming a fast-rising sensation and an astute businessman in the entertainment industry. The very passionate Gabriel K has won the hearts of hundreds of thousands of fans and music lovers across the continent with his amazing vocal dexterity. In an interview with Vanguard, the father of three who doubles up as a successful businessman declared his interests in acting and also vowed to take over Nollywood industry, “Nollywood is no doubt the largest entertainment and movie industry in Africa. They have lots of talented stars with global recognition. My aim is to make a difference and possibly take over as one of the best actors out there.” he said. Asked why he had to switch from music to acting, he said,” Am an all-round entertainer who likes to explore and gain experience from numerous fields. In fact, during my primitive years, I started as an actor, appearing on some family shows like mummy’s favourite, Sunrise and many others. This has really helped me to gain the experience so I feel confident I will make it here too.” Gabriel was discovered by Aflik TV, an internationally recognised distributor of Nollywood movies and African inspired contents. He now motivates young fans from across the continent to feel comfortable pursuing their dreams and striving to become the best version of them. It would be nice to see what next for this musician and actor, who seems not ready to slow down on his new acting career. Stay connected on social media @gabrielk_sings @bsmgstudios @AflikTV VANGUARD Screen favourites Desmond Elliot, Richard Mofe-Damijo, Patience Ozokwor and OmotolaJalade-Ekeinde have been named alongside renowned movie director TundeKelani in alist of 32 of the most influential figures in the Nigerian movie industry released by top entertainment news website TheNETng ahead of the fourth edition of the Nigerian Entertainment Conference (NECLive)… February 15, 2016 In "Entertainment" Leading acts in the nation’s entertainment industry recently regrouped to thrill theatre goers in a new and riveting international film, “Superstar” produced by US-based Nigerian-born filmmaker, Tony Abulu. May 30, 2015 In "Home Video People" Nigerian Music and Noollywood movies are currently making waves in Sierra Leone’s entertainment industry, especially in Freetown, a survey by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), has revealed. March 11, 2018 In "Music"