The new Acting managing director/CEO, Transmission Company of Nigeria, TCN, Engr. Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz, has assumed duty in Abuja. Engr. Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz was the Regional Transmission Manager for Abuja Region of TCN before his appointment as the Acting Managing Director of the Transmission Company of Nigeria, TCN, on 19th May, 2020. He joined the defunct National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) in 1996 as Manager, Electrical, and rose through the ranks to become the Senior Manager, Projects in the defunct Power Holding Company (PHCN) in charge of, and supervising various project sites nationwide. In 2013, Engr. Abdulaziz was made the Assistant General Manager, Technical Audit in charge of valuation and vetting of all technical jobs executed by contractors among others. In 2014, he was moved  back to Projects department as the Assistant General Manager, Substation Projects, working as projects’ director for all TCN’s substations projects which includes general supervision, defining project parameters and ensuring compliance with specifications and timelines. As Assistant General Manager, Projects, he ensured the successful completion and energizing of various transmission substation projects including Kukwaba in Abuja, Maiduguri Substation in Borno, Odogunyan Substation in Lagos State and Okpella Substation in Edo State, among others. He holds a BSc Electrical and MSc Automation Engineering from The Technical University, Sofia, Bulgaria and is a member of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Council for the Regulations of Engineering (COREN) and a Chartered Member of Nigeria Institute of Management (NIM). Engr. Abudulaziz has attended several local and international Engineering, Technical and Administrative courses. He assumed duty as the Acting MD on May 20, 2020. Vanguard Organised labour unions at the Transmission Company of Nigeria, TCN, yesterday, trooped in large numbers to express their anger over the replacement of the managing Director of the company, Mr. Usman Gur Mohammed with Engr. Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz. May 20, 2020 In "News" *Labour accuses Minister of Power of working for foreign interests *...says sacked MD strengthened transmission network nationwide By Victor Young, Chris Ochayi & Shina Abubakar Organised labour, on Tuesday, rejected the sack of Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, MD/CEO, of Transmission Company of Nigeria, TCN, Usman Mohammed, and demanded his immediate… May 20, 2020 In "News" By Chris Ochayi The Federal Government has undertaken a major re-organisation at Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) with the replacement of the Managing Director (MD) Mr. Usman Gur Mohammed with Sule Abdulaziz. This was contained in a statement by Mr. Aaron Animas, the Special Adviser to the Minister of Power… May 20, 2020 In "News"