ABUJA—FORMER United Nations, UN, Secretary-General, Ban Ki-Moon has described the appointment of Prof Ibrahim Gambari as Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari as a great asset to Nigeria and Africa ”in a broader sense.” The former UN Secretary-General in a letter of congratulations addressed to Prof Gambari, on May 18, said that the invaluable experience he gained while serving the UN, with various important leadership roles, will help address leadership issues in the country. He wrote, ”I would like to sincerely congratulate you on your recent appointment as Chief of Staff to H.E. President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria. ”Your appointment is a great asset not to the President of Nigeria but also your country Nigeria and Africa in a broader sense. ”I am confident that your invaluable experience gained while serving the UN, with various important leadership roles, will help your leadership in addressing these challenging times caused by COVID-19. ”I shared this good news with the former Minister Yoo Chong-ha, your good friend and former Foreign Minister of Korea. He sends his warmest congratulations to you.” He further said that he looked forward to meeting Prof. Gambari at the UN again, while wishing the accomplished Nigerian diplomat success on his new assignment. Meanwhile, the UK High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing, has also expressed delight with the appointment of Prof Gambari as the Chief of Staff to the President. The High Commissioner said the Mission looks forward to working closely with the Chief of Staff on ”our shared agenda in the challenging COVID-19 times.” Vanguard News Nigeria Whatever public reaction Prof Ibrahim Agboola Gambari expected of his appointment as President Muhammadu Buhari’s Chief Of Staff (COS), he probably didn’t imagine the bile from some individuals he had dealings with in the course of his past public life. May 15, 2020 In "News" Who would have thought anything could easily get our minds off nose masks, social distancing and the escalating COVID-19 pandemic infections? May 14, 2020 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi ABUJA - The ruling All Progressives Congress APC has congratulated Prof. Ibrahim Gambari on his appointment as the new Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, describing him as a round peg in a round hole. APC in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre… May 13, 2020 In "News"