As part of its Investor Education Programme, the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) has identified the benefits of investment in Federal Government’s bond called Sukuk as a wealth creation strategy in this period of COVID-19 pandemic. The Institute in a statement jointly signed by its President and Chairman of Governing Council, Mr Tunde Amolegbe and Registrar and Chief Executive, Mr Adedeji Ajadi urges investors to partner with stockbrokers for investment advice on the processes and procedures for investing in the financial asset whose on-going sale is expected to expire on Tuesday, June 2, 2020. “ Sukuk Ijarah is a fixed income security backed the Federal Government.  This makes it an investment without risk as repayment of investors is guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the Federal Government of Nigeria, hence, the instrument as a gild hedge. Sukuk is highly sought after by ethical Investors. it provides a regular bi-annual tax-free payment for the period of the instrument while principal will be paid at the end of maturity period which is 7 years. ”The profit to investors is pre-determined at regular interval to enable them enjoy steady cash flow. Sukuk helps in redistribution of wealth. It is a risk management instrument which is ideal for both speculators and investors. Speculators can sell before maturity. The instrument will help the government to finance large projects. “The Federal Government has promised to invest the proceeds in specific road projects across the 6 geo-political zones of the country for the benefit of the citizens as a whole. The  Institute hereby encourages investors to approach their Stockbrokers to learn more about this instrument prior to making their investment decision. Stockbrokers are very accessible and they are professionals equipped with skills and competencies in evaluating the risk and returns associated with such an instrument and will be able to guide investors accordingly” Ajadi said Continuing, the CIS President said: “Stockbrokers will assist investors to open accounts at The Nigerian Stock Exchange’s Clearing House, Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) to keep (warehouse) their investments with opportunities to track it on The Exchange and FMDQ in case they decide sell before maturity. “The Institute encourages the public to visit the website www.cisinigeria.com or that of The Exchange and FMDQ to learn more about the authorized stockbrokers to approach.” Vanguard The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) said it is set to engage the Federal Government and the Directorate of the National Youth Corps Scheme (NYSC) on the need to integrate capital market operations into the entrepreneurial scheme of NYSC to avail the fresh graduates a more comprehensive exposure to the… June 2, 2015 In "Business" Mr. Oluwaseyi Abe is the Chief Executive Officer of Magnartis Finance and Investments Limited. In this interview, Abe offers insights into current developments in the capital market, regulatory framework to market infractions, achievement of Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers, CIS among others. Excerpts By Peter Egwuatu WHAT can be done to… July 16, 2018 In "Business" I must put on record that many government functionaries, including governors, ministers and heads of Agencies and Parastatals do visit the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE . Recently, the NSE hosted the Speaker of House of Representatives, Honourable Yakubu Dogara who addressed the stockbrokers and closed the market by ringing the… August 8, 2016 In "Business"