Professor of political science, Jideofor Adibe, Wednesday said the chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, would soon be part of the cabal in the Aso rock. Disclosing this on Politics Today, a Channels Television programme, Adibe opined that: “Professor Gambari is not going to solve the problem of cabals in government. In political science we have what we call the ‘iron law of oligarchy’, that any organisation no matter how democratic they may have started, because authorities would have to be delegated, there would be competition in various centres of power to capture access or to exercise disproportionate influence. “So a small clique will always become triumphant, which means that anytime you talk about government, you talk about struggle for state capture, you talk about cabal. “Everyone will be cabal, sooner or later he will become part of the cabal that he would be able to exercise disproportionate influence.” “The president has a team of economic advisers, he has a minister of finance, he has a task force on COVID-19 and others. His job, as far as I can make it, is to advise,” he said. “He looks at some of the positions that are being presented to the president and streamline them – narrow down the options. Sometimes, he doesn’t do this alone, he has his own staff, his own consultants to look at some of the proposals that are being sent to the president.” Vanguard Reactions have continued to trail the appointment of Ibrahim Gambari as the new chief of staff to the President. May 12, 2020 In "News" The Nigerians in Diaspora Monitoring Group (UK) has hailed President Muhammadu Buhari's choice of Prof. Ibrahim Gambiri as his new Chief of Staff. In a communique issued at the end of an emergency virtual meeting on Thursday, the UK-based Nigerians described the diplomat's appointment as a “plus to the country's… May 13, 2020 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has congratulated Professor Ibrahim Gambari as the new Chief Of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, describing him as the right man for the job. Sanwo-Olu in a statement on Wednesday, through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, added that Professor… May 13, 2020 In "News"