Sporting CP are at risk of being reported to FIFA over the January transfer that saw star midfielder Bruno Fernandes join Manchester United. The player’s former club, Sampdoria, believe they are owed a sell-on fee from the deal that has not been paid. After weeks of speculation and negotiation, United eventually agreed to a deal with Sporting worth an initial £47m (€55m), rising to a potential £67m (€80m) with add-ons. Fernandes had earlier joined Sporting from Sampdoria for a reported €8.5m in 2017, marking his return to Portugal after spending five years in Italy with three different clubs. But as part of that deal, I Blucerchiati are thought to have agreed a sell-on clause. Portuguese outlet A Bola writes that Sampdoria claims they are owed €4.65m (£4m), which is equivalent to 10% of the profit that Sporting made on their original purchase of Fernandes. However, that money has not been passed on to the Serie A side, and A Bola notes that the dispute has so far seen the clubs engage in talks and not yet reached the stage of legal action. If there is no resolution, the matter could be escalated and a formal complaint made to FIFA. Sporting’s argument for not paying Sampdoria would, therefore, be that Fernandes was no longer under the terms of his original contract when he moved on. Whether that defence would hold up to legal scrutiny and investigation remains to be seen. Fernandes himself is not part of the controversy and has been a revelation since arriving in Manchester. The 25-year-old immediately breathed new life into the United squad and had seven combined goals and assists in nine appearances by the time coronavirus halted football. Fotmob Vanguard Portugal midfielder Bruno Fernandes completed his move from Sporting Lisbon to Manchester United on Thursday, claiming he was inspired to switch to Old Trafford by compatriot Cristiano Ronaldo. The 25-year-old has signed a five-and-a-half-year contract with an option to extend for a further year. The long-anticipated deal, with an initial… January 30, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester United have agreed a deal to sign Bruno Fernandes from Sporting CP, it was announced on Wednesday. Fernandes' move to Old Trafford is subject to a medical and the agreement of personal terms. Sporting posted a video on Twitter to say farewell to the 25-year-old Portugal international, who has… January 29, 2020 In "Sports" Noisy neighbours Manchester City, are planning to hijack Man United's move for Portugal and Sporting Lisbon midfielder, Bruno Fernandes. Fernandes has managed to contribute 13 goals and ten assists in 22 matches in all competitions this season for Sporting. Sporting captain Fernandes is said to be desperate to move and… January 20, 2020 In "Sports"