After kicking off her music career at the age of 17 in Abuja, US-based Nigerian singer/songwriter, Jamila has refined her craft and is now ready to introduce herself to a global audience with her latest single, Black and Blue. Blessed with a soothing, evocative voice, Jamila confidently addresses the human experience in her sound, from romance to personal identity. And these largely reflected in her 2018 debut single, Kai Ne Nawa, and also her sophomore, Black and Blue. According to Jamila, who has a Masters degree in International Business, growing up she always listened to music of great artistes like Sade, Miriam Makeba and Mary J. Blige. “One day, I discovered my parents’ collection of Lauryn Hill and Whitney Houston’s CDs. After listening to those albums, I knew I wanted to be a musician. So, I started writing songs at a very early age, and that developed my passion for music,” she recalled. Shedding more lights on her new work, the young but talented musician said it’s a song she wrote about a failing relationship. Hear her: “Black and Blue is a song I wrote about a failing relationship. I have been in a few (relationships) and I know someone really close to me that is going through something similar. I decided to write the song to talk about it from both our perspectives.” Produced by San Francisco-based Rob Wright, a producer who has worked with major artistes like Roots and Eryka Badu, Black and Blue will be released this May on Makeda Music label in collaboration with Black Wall Street. VANGUARD Rythm and Blues crooner Jamila Mohammed was a guest of Music Africa Studio, Lagos last weekend. Looking pretty good in her traditional African wear she was received by Mr Philip Trimnell the producer of Music Africa who took her round the Music Africa Studio, Video recording studio and editing facilities. August 10, 2012 In "Music" British born Jamila Mohammed singer, song writer and music management consultant makes her debut in the industry with a brand single titled “No Regrets.” June 25, 2011 In "Music" As a follow up to her single track No regrets which got positive reviews in the media and a massive airplay, British born Nigerian artiste Jamila Mohammed has added another new single to her belt. September 3, 2011 In "Showtime People"