The House of Representatives member representing Warri Federal Constituency from Delta State at the National Assembly, Chief Thomas Ereyitomi has expressed shock over the sacking of more than 300 casual/back up staff of Warri Refining and Petrochemical Company, WRPC by the management of Nigeria National Petroleum Company, NNPC. Ereyitomi made the observation known during the House plenary on Tuesday, May 19, where he moved a motion on the need for the House of Representatives to intervene in the termination of over 300 casual workers in the Warri Refinery and Petrochemical Company. The lawmaker disclosed that his petition over the continuous casualisation of staff in the Warri petrochemical company is still before the House Committee on Public Petitions and hence, he is alarmed that the company went ahead to sack the staff during this COVID-19 pandemic period against the blanket and explicit directive of the Federal Government against such act. He is thus calling on the management of NNPC to reinstate the affected and restore them as full staff status as other NNPC workers as they have served the company for so many years and deserve benefits accruing to other NNPC workers. Chief Ereyitomi also urged those affected in his constituents to remain calm as he and others are on top of the matter to reverse such unacceptable treatment from NNPC/WRPC against hosts communities and Warri people.  The revered politician-cum philanthropist also called on the management of NNPC to avoid actions that can affect its smooth operations in their hosts communities.  The Chairman of Warri North Local Government Council, Delta State, Hon. Aduge Okorodudu has commended the member representing Warri Federal Constituency at the National House of Assembly for donating cash and food items to the people of the Local Government Area during the sit at home lockdown ordered by the… April 25, 2020 In "News" The lawmaker representing Warri Federal Constituency representative at the National  House of Assembly, Chief Thomas Ereyitomi, JP has presented stimulus package to persons living with disabilities across Warri South, Warri North and Warri South-West Local Government Areas of Delta State to assist cushion their pains during the government-ordered lockdown to… April 30, 2020 In "News" The member representing  Warri Federal  Constituency at the  National House of  Assembly, Hon. Thomas Ereyitomi  has congratulated  Nigerian workers as they join their counterparts in the globe to mark this year 2020 International labour day which is celebrated May 1 every year. May 1, 2020 In "News"