Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi on Friday, said the state may possibly record between 90,000 and 120,000 cases of COVID-19 by July or August. He said with the current trend the COVID-19 cases in Lagos is expected to reach its peak by the above stated period. Abayomi, revealed this during a media briefing on the update of COVID-19 in the state, held in Alausa, Ikeja. According to the commissioner, the state is yet to reach the virus peak, which will likely be around July and August. Abayomi stated that Lagos has expanded its testing capacity testings to reach large number of people aimed at flattening the curve. He attributed the sharp rise in cases being recorded to the decentralisation of sample collection across the 20 Local Governments Areas of the state. According to him, if the government had not been proactive, the Lagos would have by now recorded 6,000 cases rather than the 1,491 cases recorded so far. Abayomi disclosed that Alimosho, Oshodi, and Isolo have begun to record a high rate of COVID-19 cases. He, however, noted that 97 per cent of positive cases at its isolation centres were mild and moderate cases. Abayomi said that plans have been concluded to commence hydroxychloroquine clinical trial next week for treatment of COVID-19 patients. Vanguard News Nigeria. *Says obesity, diabetes, hypertension make people vulnerable to coronavirus By Chioma Obinna & Gabriel Olawale Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi, has said one out of every five Lagosians that exhibit respiratory symptoms are infected with COVID-19. Professor Abayomi also warned that the disease also affects the kidneys… April 29, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, on Sunday announced another three COVID-19 related deaths, as the number of confirmed cases in the state increased to 1,084. May 3, 2020 In "News" Lagos State has discharged four additional fully recovered COVID-19 patients. The discharged persons bring the number of patients that have so far recovered fully from the coronavirus disease in Lagos to 98. The Commissioner for Health in the state, Professor Akin Abayomi, disclosed this via his Twitter handle. The commissioner… April 20, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"