The former Deputy National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Olabode George mourned late Justice Isiaka Oluwa on Saturday, saying he benefitted from Oluwa’s selflessness and his wisdom. He described Justice Oluwa as a man of truth, fearlessness and justice. George, in a statement, said the late Oluwa confronted the faces of evil and dark leadership with bold bravura. ALSO READ: ThrowBack: I know Tinubu, I know Buhari, they cannot mix – Bode George The statement in Chief Olabode George mourned late Justice Isiaka Oluwa read: “I am saddened, touched and disturbed by the passage of Justice Isiaka Oluwa. He was a good man. He was a Lagosian original, predicated on truth, fearlessness and justice. “He feared no one. He embraced everyone: the downtrodden, the trampled, those who had no voice. “There was certain defiance about this man; a certain certitude of purpose and a deliberate insistence on ensuring that the truth must be told all the time; no matter whose ox is gored. “He was brave, indifferent to the tools of animadversion; he confronted the tools of power with the typical Lagosian aura; he was locked with firm, logical attestation that the truth must always be told. “He was a rarity; almost strange, audacious, frank, assertive who challenged the evil of the hour without self-protectiveness. “He was indifferent to personal comfort; he lived for all. He was our leader, our Baba who did not compromise the truth. He was the representative man, a good Lagosian, who represented us all “ I cannot forget my personal engagement with this good man. He could be calm, casual, purposeful, determined, resolved on the good cause. “He never battered with evil. He confronted the faces of evil and dark leadership with bold bravura. He was unusual, kind, indifferent to personal acquisition. He lived for all. “Lagos has lost a son; I have lost a valuable Baba. He wore, alone, an armour of defiance before the oppressors’ woes. He was a scourge before the tyrant’s lash. “I, Chief Olabode George, benefitted from his selflessness and his wisdom. May he find repose in the bosom of the Lord.” Vanguard A retired judge of the High Court of Lagos State, Justice Isiaka Isola Oluwa is dead. He was 102 years old. Justice Oluwa will be remembered as the judge that sentenced Lagos socialite, Alhaji Jimoh Isola, a.k.a Ejigbadero, to death for murder of a farmer, Raji Oba over land disputes,… May 9, 2020 In "News" FORMER Deputy National Chairman of the PDP, Chief Olabode George, has described the decision by INEC to recognise Mr Jimoh Ibrahim as the Ondo governorship candidate as one of the most “unsavory and disturbing interventions in our political space since the dawn of democracy.” October 30, 2016 In "Politics" CHAIRMAN of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in, Lagos State, Mr. Moshood Salvador, yesterday, dumped the PDP for the All Progressives Congress, APC. August 28, 2018 In "News"