Saudi Arabia said Monday it had asked oil giant Aramco to cut output by an additional one million barrels per day from June, to support prices that have crashed during the coronavirus crisis. The move will reduce the output of the world’s biggest crude oil exporter (Saudi) to 7.5 million barrels per day, the energy ministry said in a statement cited by the official Saudi Press Agency. OPEC and its allies in the so-called OPEC+ grouping agreed last month to cut production by a record 9.7 million bpd while other producers pledged to reduce their output by around 3.7 million bpd. Under the deal, Saudi Arabia’s daily production was cut to 8.5 million bpd, the lowest in more than a decade. “The kingdom aims from this additional cut to stimulate countries in the OPEC+ and other producing nations to comply with committed production cuts and make additional reductions in a bid to support the stability of the global oil market,” the energy ministry said. Despite the massive cuts, which became effective on May 1, oil prices remain extremely low — losing around two-thirds of their value this year due to a coronavirus-driven slump in demand. Prices were further dampened in April by a price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia during which Riyadh’s production soared to a record 12.3 million bpd, pushing stockpiles to unsustainably high levels. The ministry said that with the latest production curb, the kingdom would have cut 4.8 million bpd from the record output levels in April. The price of the international benchmark Brent crude is hovering around $30 a barrel. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Energy giant Saudi Aramco said Wednesday it plans to raise its crude production capacity by one million barrels per day to 13 million bpd as a price war with Russia intensifies. The decision came a day after Saudi Arabia, the world's top exporter, decided to hike production by at least… March 11, 2020 In "Foreign" OPEC members curbed production in November, led by kingpin Saudi Arabia, it said Wednesday, before agreeing to deeper cuts last week. OPEC and partner countries such as Russia want to maintain crude oil prices at a minimum level despite a decline in global trade and abundant reserves. Total output… December 11, 2019 In "News" Following the continued spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) and its impacts on the global commodity markets, there seems to be a heightened pressure on the nation’s budget as the price of Bonny Light declines to $29 per barrel. This is coming a day after Saudi Arabia flooded the international market with… March 17, 2020 In "Business"