Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is considering the reintroduction of lockdown over the flouting of regulations. Governor Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State said he would not hesitate to re-introduce lockdown, following non-compliance by residents to safety guidelines and directives in the wake of gradual easing of lockdown in the state. Sanwo-Olu gave the warning while giving an update on COVID-19 situation in the state, during a live broadcast, on Saturday. The governor, who commended some sectors for their encouraging level of compliance, frowned at flagrant disregard for safety directives by commercial bus and motorcycle operators, with a strict warning for them to change or face severe sanctions. ALSO READ: Coronavirus: Sanwo-Olu suspends okada operations in Lagos According to Sanwo-Olu, “on Monday May 4, 2020, we commenced a gradual and controlled easing of the 5 weeks lockdown occasioned by the Coronavirus pandemic. Six days into this new phase, I am here to address you on our assessment of the experience so far. “In terms of the non-compliance, the list is regrettably much longer. On the first day of this new phase of an eased lockdown, the compliance level for commercial transport sector operations was regrettably very low. “Yellow commercial buses especially failed to comply with the capacity restrictions outlined in our framework. While compliance has improved in subsequent days, it is still not encouraging. “Many commercial motorcycle operators openly and indiscriminately defied the suspension. “The ban on inter-state travel except for essential goods and services was also consistently flouted. In many cases people decided to make the final leg of the journey into the State on foot, to beat the restrictions. “Trucks and other vehicles carrying items designated as essential, have also played major roles in flouting the guidelines, by conspiring to conceal and smuggle people in and out of the state.” Vanguard By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has expressed displeasure over non-compliance by residents to safety guidelines and directives in the wake of gradual easing of lockdown, warning that the state government would not hesitate to review the terms of easing if the level of compliance continues to… May 9, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Following the sharp rise in the confirmed cases of COVID-19, Lagos State Government, through the Lagos State Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development has released additional guidelines. The guideline was intended to curtail the possibility of continuous spread of the virus on all building construction sites… May 9, 2020 In "Homes & Property" Releases hotlines for whistleblowing Urges discharged patients to observe 14 more days isolation period Orders public workers to stay at home Seeks monarchs' support Decries shortage of PPE in the state By Olasunkanmi Akoni Amid increasing cases of COVID-19 pandemic and a gradual easing of lockdown, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has… May 3, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"