The President of the African Development Bank, AfDB, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, has reiterated his confidence in the integrity of the Bank,  saying that he has not violated the Code of Ethics of the bank. In a statement he signed yesterday and made available to Vanguard, Adesina said despite unprecedented attempts by some to tarnish his reputation and prejudice the Bank’s governance procedures, “I maintain my innocence concerning trumped-up allegations that unjustly seek to impugn my honour and integrity, as well as the reputation of the African Development Bank.” On May 5, the ethics committee of AfDB, headed by Takuji Yano, cleared Adesina of all allegations of impropriety and fraud, but the United States government is still demanding that a fresh and in-depth investigation be conducted into the allegations against him using an independent investigator. But in a veil reaction to the call for his probe again, Adesina in the statement said “ in recent weeks and over the last few days especially, I have been overwhelmed by the tremendous support received from around the world. “I have absolute confidence in the integrity of the Bank that I lead and its governance systems, rules and procedures. He added, “Despite unprecedented attempts by some to tarnish my reputation and prejudice the Bank’s governance procedures, I maintain my innocence concerning trumped-up allegations that unjustly seek to impugn my honour and integrity, as well as the reputation of the African Development Bank.” While appreciating the support of the Bank’s shareholders, Adesina said he remained confident that ultimately and as one collective, “the bank will emerge stronger than before and continue to support Africa’s development drive. The 2017 World Food Prize winner added I am confident that fair, transparent and just processes that respect the rules, procedures and governance systems of the Bank, and the rule of law will ultimately prove that I have not violated the Code of Ethics of this extraordinary Institution. “I will, therefore, continue to work with every one of our shareholders to ensure that the African Development Bank maintains its hard-earned global reputation and that our credible and well-functioning institutional and governance systems and reinforced, as we collectively press on to fulfil the mission of our founders to accelerate and transform Africa’s development.” Dr Adesina said he draws his inspiration from his heroes, Nelson Mandela and Kofi Annan, whose lives have shown that through pain we grow. Vanguard The President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Akinwumi Adesina, hit back on Wednesday over accusations of corruption and vowed to continue working. In a press statement, Adesina slammed the "unprecedented attempts by some to tarnish my reputation" and declared "I will... continue to work with each and every one… May 27, 2020 In "News" The call by the  United States government for a fresh and in-depth investigation into the allegations against the President of African Development Bank, Mr Akinwumi Adesina, after he was cleared of all allegations of impropriety and fraud by the ethics committee recently, is seen as a plan to destabilise the… May 26, 2020 In "News" The African Development Bank (AfDB) is currently gearing up for another leadership election. The current President, Mr. Akinwumi Adesina, is already dealing with setbacks and a coup hell bent on removing him from office. This isn’t unexpected, considering the fact that Adesina is running for a second term in office… May 27, 2020 In "Viewpoint"