Temi Olajide, a writer, has said parents should allow their children thrive and utilise the opportunities of the digital era. She, however, cautioned that parents need new skills set and knowledge to ensure the children are on the right path while navigating the huge opportunities in ICT. Olajide spoke to journalists while discussing her new book, “Wifi Kids and Analogue Parents”, which she said was invaluable, especially with the global COVID-19 pandemic that has changed almost everything in the world: from working, parenting, friendships to relationships. She noted that parents who had little time for their kids are now full-time, round-the-clock parents. “Screen time and playtime have increased and many parents are finding it difficult to strike a balance between homeschooling and working from home,” she noted. On how her new book addresses such matters she said: “‘Wifi Kids and Analogue Parents’ is a must-have parent-kid book that addresses the changes in the dynamics of parenting in this age, and how to handle those changes. “It provides the much-needed guide for raising children in the digital age. It is so all-encompassing and it highlights the pros and cons of the digital age, sex education for kids, understanding and communicating with children in the digital age, constructing boundaries, among other salient issues bordering on parenting in the digital age. “We need to understand what our digital children really require to allow them to thrive and navigate successfully in this age. “The book helps you adapt quickly to the new trend of the world, and give you clarity on how to balance your work time with your parenting duty. “It is a book for all seasons, but most importantly this new phase of uncertainty the world is experiencing.” Vanguard Temi Olajide is a Certified Child Sleep/Potty Training Consultant and Child Psychologist. She is Nigeria’s first Certified Child Sleep consultant, Founder and Lead Strategist at Mummyclinic Global Services. January 15, 2020 In "Interview" Contrary to what many parents think about qualities of a good school, Mrs Ronkeposh Adeniyi, the writer of the popular book, "Right Kid 101 and Director of Le Poshe School, Parkview, Ikoyi has said that there is no good school anywhere, adding that the only good school is that school… July 12, 2018 In "Education" Contrary to what many parents think about qualities of a good school, Mrs Ronkeposh Adeniyi, the writer of the popular book, Right Kid 101 and Director of Le Poshe School, Parkview, Ikoyi, has said that there is no good school anywhere, adding that the only good school is that school… July 19, 2018 In "Education"