The Police Command in Ebonyi has rescued two siblings, aged five and 10, who were abducted from their home in Abakaliki at gunpoint. The Command Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mrs Loveth Odah disclosed this in an interview with newsmen on Wednesday in Abakaliki. Odah, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) alleged that the kidnappers robbed the mother of the siblings of huge amount of money before abducting her children. She said that the kidnappers demanded N10 million ransom but had to abandon the children at a location in Afikpo South Local Government Area of the state, after a manhunt by police operatives. Oda said the children had been reunited with their mother while efforts were being made to track down the abductors and their collaborators. “Our men are currently in pursuit of the fleeing suspected kidnappers; also investigations are ongoing to unmask possible conspirators with a view to arresting them. “I want to assure the public that there is no hiding place for criminals in the state and that efforts are being intensified to sustain police surveillance in every part of the state. “We also urge the public to volunteer timely information on criminal activities in their areas to assist the police to nip crime in the bud,” Odah said. NAN reports that three suspects were also in police custody over a botched abduction of a seven-month old baby in Abakaliki. vanguardngr.com The Ebonyi Police Command has rescued the two kidnapped Chinese nationals who were abducted by unknown gunmen at a road construction site in Ohaozara Local Government Area of the state on Wednesday. April 28, 2019 In "News" The Police on  Tuesday confirmed the abduction of a 38-year- old woman, Mrs Ijeoma Nweke, around Dr Laz Nwuzor Street, Hill Top area of Abakaliki by suspected kidnappers. February 13, 2018 In "News" ABAKALIKI—A kidnap victim (name withheld), who was allegedly abducted in Umuoghara quarry site in Ezza North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, has been rescued by operatives of the state police command . April 27, 2016 In "News"