The Nigeria Football Federation, NFF, has made clear what it expects from the senior men national team in the contract extension agreement handed to Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr. Rohr, among other, requirement is expected to win the next AFCON in Cameroon and then secure a Qatar 2022 World Cup spot for the side he has headed since 2016. I’m happy to announce that the @thenff and Coach Gernot Rohr have concluded all contractual discussions and he will stay on as Coach of the Super Eagles. We have always had confidence in his abilities and we are confident that the national team can only go higher from here. — Amaju Melvin Pinnick (@PinnickAmaju) May 27, 2020 NFF president, Amaju Pinnick while announcing the contract extension on his twitter handle wrote: “I’m happy to announce that the NFF and Coach Gernot Rohr have concluded all contractual discussions and he will stay on as Coach of the Super Eagles. “We have always had confidence in his abilities and we are confident that the national team can only go higher from here.” “We can now focus on qualifying for the World Cup and winning the Nations Cup. In truth, these are sacrosanct and Coach Rohr is aware of these conditions.  “Like the Honourable Minister of Youth and Sports Development has rightly noted; we are uncompromising in these goals. Rohr in his time in charge of the Super Eagles has to his credit an AFCON 2019 qualification that ended with a third-place finish and a 2018 world cup qualification where Nigeria finished with one win and two losses. To retain the position, Rohr had to agree to several conditions set by the football federation, some of which were accepting a pay-cut, being paid in Naira and also residing in Nigeria. VANGUARD The memorable tenure of Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr seems to have suddenly gone sour in the mouths of many Nigerians, who are calling for his sack, following the national team’s bronze-winning efforts at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, AFCON in Egypt. The anger in those who want him… July 20, 2019 In "News" Former Nigeria Football Federation technical committee boss, Chris Green has urged the nation’s soccer-ruling body to consider ex-internationals like Emmanuel Amuneke and Finidi George for the post of the Super Eagles coach. Green argued that present coach Gernot Rohr has proved to be an average coach as was seen at… April 9, 2020 In "Sports" Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr has been paid his full salary for November and December. November 28, 2017 In "News"