The Nigerian movie industry was thrown into mourning mood on Monday, as it lost yet another veteran actress, Chizoba Sam-Boye to the cold hands of death. She was 52. The actress reportedly died after suffering from an infected diabetic boil.
She was said to have been battling with diabetes, stroke and high blood pressure for many years now. Breaking the sad news on the Filmmakers WhatsApp group called, Film4Life, film critic and the regional representative for West Africa of the Pan-African Federation of Filmmakers (FEPACI), Madu Chikwendu wrote, “Chizoba Sam-Boye is dead.” According to film make, Jude Orhorha, the deceased was rushed to the hospital yesterday night , where she was confirmed dead Monday morning. The actress, who was a strong advocate of Igbo language films would be remembered for her pioneering role in ‘Living in Bondage,’ that gave birth to Nollywood ‘Checkmate, Scandals among others great movies. Chizoba, wife of veteran filmmaker, Sam Boye, was also the star of M-net produced TV series, “Tinsel.” It was gathered that she recently celebrated 15th wedding anniversary with her husband. Her colleagues in the movie industry have since been paying tributes to the late actress. Vanguard News Nigeria It was an outburst of emotions last weekend in Lagos when Nollywood’s top stars went down the memory lane to eulogize the virtues of departed actor, Sam Loco Efe who died last month in Owerri, Imo State capital. September 17, 2011 In "Home Video People" Talented Nollywood actress and Brand Ambassador, Funke Akindele-Oloyede returns in this romantic comedy, “A Wish” directed and produced by award winning actor cum filmmaker, Elvis Chucks. November 10, 2012 In "Home Video People" Nollywood actress and producer, Uche Jombo who teamed up with another veteran actress Ini Edo has refuted claims from different quarters that their new movie, ‘Heaven On My Mind’ which is set for cinema release from Friday, December 7, 2018 is a Christian movie. She however made it clear that the… November 10, 2018 In "Home Video People"