Lazio president Claudio Lotito said the Serie A’s proposed return following the coronavirus crisis is a victory for all of Italian football. The Serie A season is set to resume from June 20, Italy’s sports minister confirmed on Thursday. The 2019-20 campaign was suspended in March due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but clubs were permitted to return to contact training this month. Lazio were second and just a point behind defending champions Juventus through 26 games at the time of postponement. Lotito revelled in the announcement, telling Adnkronos: “This is not a victory for Lotito, but for all Italian football. “I am certain that with this restart, our football will be able to maintain the elevated quality standard that is recognised all over the world. “Serie A is one of the most important leagues in the sport.” Coppa Italia semi-final games are to be held on June 13, with Serie A to get back underway the following week. Milan were due to face Juve in the second leg of the Coppa Italia semi-final in Turin on March 4 after a 1-1 draw in the opening fixture. The other semi-final was also finely poised, with Napoli 1-0 up against Inter ahead of their second leg at the San Paolo. However, Milan president Paolo Scaroni told ANSA: “We understand the value of offering fans quality matches after months of lockdown. “However, from a sporting perspective, we find the idea of assigning such an important trophy as the Coppa Italia with two games in three days after three months of inactivity to be at the least debatable.” Fotmob Vanguard An anti-racism campaign by Serie A featuring monkeys was "too provocative", Lazio president Claudio Lotito said Wednesday, stressing however that the league was not racist. Monday's launch of the campaign was aimed at promoting "integration, multiculturalism and fraternity" but immediately drew widespread criticism and ridicule. "The spirit was not to… December 18, 2019 In "News" Half of the tournament distance of the Italian Serie A has already passed, which means that it is time to take intermediate results. You can follow them in the livescore section on the website of sports statistics. January 24, 2020 In "News" Cristiano Ronaldo returned to training with Juventus in Turin on Tuesday after an absence of over two months because of the coronavirus pandemic. The 35-year-old arrived at the Juventus Training Centre in a Jeep with tinted windows around 09:20 (0720 GMT), leaving three hours later with a smile and thumbs… May 19, 2020 In "Sports"