Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo, on Thursday announced the discharge of 48 more COVID-19 patients from the Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, Lekki, Onikan and from LUTH Isolation Centres. Having fully recovered and tested negative to COVID-19 in two consecutive readings, the patients were discharged to reunite with their families. Sanwo-Olu said the government and Lagosians will continue to celebrate and acknowledge the wins, as well as reflect on the losses. He said “These will help us stay on course, prevent us from being distracted, help us stay focused as we face this pandemic head-on. “Though we have been recording recovered patients, we need to also be careful, remain guarded, and show commitment and cooperation with authorities as we are all in this together. Our wins are your wins, our losses, your losses. “Therefore, I’m pleased to announce to you the discharge of 48 more patients; 32 males and 16 females, all Nigerians who were discharged from our Yaba, Lekki, Onikan and Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) isolation facilities to reunite with the society. “The patients, 28 from the Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, 6 from Lekki, 1 from Onikan and 13 from LUTH Isolation Centres were discharged having fully recovered and tested negative to #COVID19 in two consecutive readings. With this new development, the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases that have been successfully managed and discharged in Lagos stands at 406. Vanguard News Nigeria The Lagos State Government on Saturday discharged 22 more patients who tested negative twice to coronavirus disease. May 3, 2020 In "News" The Lagos State government, on Tuesday, announced the discharge of nine more Coronavirus patients, having tested negative twice for the virus. Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in a statement, said that the number of discharged patients from the isolation centres in the state was now 107. ”Good people of Lagos, I have… April 21, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" Sanwo-Olu, in a statement, said that the number of discharged patients from the isolation centres in the state had gone up to 61. ”Good people of Lagos, I have more great news from our isolation facilities. “Today, six more persons; one female and five males have been discharged to join… April 13, 2020 In "News"