The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, yesterday, handed over a property forfeited by former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Allison-Madueke, to the Lagos State government for use as an isolation centre for COVID-19 patients. The property comprising  six flats of three bedrooms and a boys’ quarter was forfeited by the former minister,  following an order of a Federal High Court, Lagos in 2017. Speaking during the handover ceremony, the Lagos Zonal Head of the EFCC, Mohammed Rabo stated that the gesture was part of the Commission’s social responsibility efforts towards the fight against the spread of Corona virus. He said,”In addition to our mandate to fight economic and financial crimes, the Commission is committed and ready to render essential services that may be required of it in the fight against covid-19. Therefore, Lagos State should not hesitate to call on the Commission any time the need for such essential service arises”. In his remarks, the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, thanked the Commission for the gesture, noting that it was a welcome collaboration between the Federal and Lagos State Government. While assuring the Commission that the property would be put to good use, the governor, appreciated  the EFCC for paying attention to the efforts of the state government at containing COVID 19, adding that “part of the challenges we have been facing is getting isolation centres for COVID-19 patients. We will go round the facility to see what we can do to improve on it.” Vanguard The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Friday handed over a property forfeited by former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Allison-Madueke, to the Lagos State government for use as an isolation centre for COVID-19 patients. May 15, 2020 In "News" By Soni Daniel - Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on Friday handed over the luxury flats, which it had seized from former Petrolem Minister, Diezani Alison-Madueke, to the Lagos State Government to use as one of it isolation centres. The property, which consists of six flats of three… May 15, 2020 In "News" MR. Olajide Omokore, an ally of former Petroleum Minister, Mrs. Diezani Alison-Madueke, yesterday, lost his bid to recover his property forfeited to the Federal Government by a Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, as his suit was struck out. March 13, 2018 In "News"