Ethiopian Airlines, Africa’s biggest and most profitable, was not left out of the effects of the coronavirus pandemic which hit the aviation industry very badly. Whiles most airlines across the continent are grounded totally, Ethiopian continues flying in two main operation zones – cargo and repatriation flights. Its cargo operations has seen the airline fly across the world delivering much-needed materials in the fight against COVID-19. One of its most recent flights was on May 2 when they transported supplies from Hong Kong to the “rest of the world.” On May 4, the Airline reported its first international cargo from Burkina Faso to Frankfurt in Germany. The historic consignment included 52 tons of fruits produced by farmers. “The Pan African carrier is glad to serve farmers and is always committed to do so,” the airline added. The airline has also been at the forefront of repatriating foreign citizens out of Africa. Cameroon to Canada was one of the most recent. The flight was touted as the longest non-stop trip between the two countries. Ethiopian also partnered with PM Abiy Ahmed in the distribution of medical supplies donated to the continent by Chinese businessman Jack Ma. The airline flew across Africa deploying the materials. Africa News Vanguard As a demonstration of its commitment to commencing flights from Kaduna to every part of the world, the management of Ethiopian Airlines Tuesday released its scheduled from Kaduna. July 12, 2017 In "News" It was not only the family of those that perished in the crash that mourned or are mourning. Many people, across the world, wept as if they had their loved ones in the tragic flight April 14, 2019 In "Aviation" By Lawani Mikairu Canada and America Monday joined the list of countries that have evacuated their citizens from Nigeria as a result of the coronavirus currently infesting a growing number of people. 200 Canadians were evacuated from the country through the Muritala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos. The Canadians were airlifted… April 6, 2020 In "News"