The Tanzanian region of Arusha says Kenya is engaging in actions meant to affect its tourist potential by issuing faulty COVID-19 test results for cross-country truck drivers. Regional commissioner Mrisho Gambo in a statement of May 20 said nineteen drivers who were declared positive by Kenya tested negative in Tanzania. “In efforts to confirm the reliability of COVID-19 test results, we took samples from 19 drivers from Tanzania who had tested and declared positive by Kenya authorities at Namanga border on Kenyan side. “After these samples were submitted to our main national laboratory in Dar es Salaam, the results came back as negative for all these drivers from Tanzania. Arusha region is confident that this is a deliberate sabotage strategy designed by Kenya against our tourism industry in Arusha and Tanzania at large,” the statement read in part. The commissioner noted that drivers declared “positive” were not allowed to cross the border into Tanzania or enter Kenya. He said Arusha remained committed to finding an amicable solution with Kenyan authorities. The development comes a day after Kenya announced that over 180 foreigners had been returned to Tanzania after testing positive for the virus. Kenya has closed its side of the border due to virus spread. Zambia also recently shut a common border with Tanzania. The town of Nakonde remains Zambia’s most infected area having recorded much more cases that the capital Lusaka. Africa News Vanguard Tanzanian and Somalia health authorities on Monday confirmed the first cases of COVID-19, saying the patient was a female who arrived in the country from Belgium by RwandAir on Sunday. The 46-year-old-woman arrived from Belgium after visiting Sweden and Denmark, health minister Ummy Mwalimu told a news conference in the… March 16, 2020 In "Health" The president of Kenya on Saturday announced its borders with neighbouring Somalia and Tanzania would be closed as the African country continued to battle the coronavirus outbreak. In a briefing, Uhuru Kenyatta said the border would only be open to lorry drivers, but they would have to undergo tests before… May 17, 2020 In "News" Tanzania on Monday became the latest East Africa country to confirm its first case of coronavirus, as neighbouring countries shuttered borders and schools as fears of contagion rose. Health Minister Ummy Mwalimu said a 46-year-old Tanzanian woman had tested positive for the illness after returning from Belgium on March 15,… March 16, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates"