Bayern Munich chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge revealed the Bundesliga champions have not activated their purchase option for Philippe Coutinho and the clause has now expired. Coutinho joined Bayern on a season-long loan deal from LaLiga holders Barcelona at the start of the 2019-20 campaign but he has struggled to establish himself in Munich. The Brazil international arrived with the option to buy for €120million but Bayern have opted not to exercise the deal, though Rummenigge did not close the door on Coutinho. “The option expired and we haven’t activated it,” Rummenigge told German magazine Der Spiegel. “We’re going to plan our squad for next season and we’ll see if he still has a role to play with us or not.” Coutinho has failed to live up to the hype since swapping Liverpool for Barca in a blockbuster transfer in 2018. The 27-year-old has scored eight goals and set up another six goals in 22 Bundesliga matches for Bayern this season, which has been disrupted by coronavirus. As Bayern reportedly eye Bayer Leverkusen star Kai Havertz and Manchester City’s Leroy Sane, Coutinho does not appear to be at the top of the club’s list. Fotmob Vanguard Bayern Munich will not activate a 120-million-euro ($130 million) option to buy on-loan Brazilian star Philippe Coutinho from Barcelona, the German champions' chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge told Der Spiegel magazine on Friday. READ ALSO: Coutinho not worth £80m – Leboeuf advises Lampard The option expired and "we haven't activated it," said Rummenigge.… May 22, 2020 In "Sports" Barcelona's Philippe Coutinho has joined Bayern Munich on a one-year loan worth 8.5 million euros ($9.5 million) with an option to buy, the Spanish club confirmed Monday. August 19, 2019 In "News" The Brazil international left Liverpool for Barca in January 2018 in a deal that could rise to £142m and has been linked with a number of Premier League clubs, including Manchester United. Speculation has been rife for a long time that Liverpool could re-sign the Brazilian playmaker, who has… March 31, 2020 In "Sports"