South Korea has raised the age of consent for sex to 16 from 13 as it seeks to strengthen protection for minors following accusations the existing law on sex crimes was too weak. Under the revised law, adults who have sex with under-16-year-olds will be prosecuted for child sexual abuse or rape regardless of any alleged consent. Previously, South Korea’s teenagers aged 13 or older were held to be legally capable of consenting to sex, resulting in controversial cases and critics saying that sex offenders were escaping without punishment due to the low benchmark. In 2017, a 42-year-old man was found not guilty of raping a then 15-year-old on the grounds she had consented, provoking outrage and calls for the age limit to be raised. Despite its economic and technological advances, South Korea remains a traditional and patriarchal society, where victims of sexual assault have been shamed for coming forward. The age of consent was raised to 16 in order to “protect teenagers from sex crimes at a fundamental level”, the South’s Justice Ministry said in a statement. The amended law also eliminated statutes of limitation for sexual crimes against minors under 13. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. WHAT is the age when men and women can legally have sex in Nigeria? This is a round about way of asking what is the age of consent? A simple question; but an extra-ordinarily complicated one. The new Child rights Legislations stipulate that having carnal knowledge (sex) of a child… February 4, 2015 In "Columns" By CHIOMA GABRIEL It is often felt and hardly spoken but the body language says it all. A pregnant woman who puts to bed perceives greater joy when the baby turns out to be a boy. The female child is welcomed with restrained joy by the parents. The expression of… July 18, 2015 In "News" About 16 million girls, aged 15 to 19, and some one million girls, under 15 years, give birth yearly in developing countries with Nigeria inclusive. Complications during child-birth and pregnancy are the second causes of death for 15-19 years old girls worldwide. February 8, 2015 In "Special Report"