The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has expressed gratitude for the kind gesture of the First Lady of Lagos State, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, for sharing palliatives to the group. Its Director, Prof. Ishaq Akintola, in Lagos on Friday, thanked and prayed for the first lady. “Our organisation had the singular honour of receiving palliatives from the office of the First Lady of Lagos State, Dr Sanwo-Olu. “The items included five bags of rice, five cartons of spaghetti and four cartons of tinned tomatoes. “These are precious items in these trying days and they are going to be greatly helpful in cushioning the effect of the lockdown on our members and other poor people. “The palliatives came at the right time as we approach the Eid al-Fitr festival. They will definitely put some smiles on the faces of some Lagosians,” Akintola said in a statement. He expressed deep appreciation to the First Lady, her husband, the governor and the entire members of the executive of Lagos State. “We pray for a very successful tenure for Gov. Babajide Sanwo- Olu, peace and progress in Lagos State and Nigeria as a whole. “We appeal to other states to follow the footsteps of Lagos State by giving relief materials to their MURIC state branches for onward distribution to the poor at grassroots level. “Although MURIC, apart from foodstuffs, on its own has distributed up to N3, 396,000 cash as at May 21 as palliatives to various states of the federation. “We need the support of state governments to be able to reach more vulnerable Nigerians,” Akintola said. .vanguardngr.com Prof. Ishaq Akintola, Director, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), has urged state governors to involve technocrats and business gurus in their cabinets for effective performances. June 11, 2019 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni There have been series of commendations for the Lagos State Government over its courageous, inspiring, professional and re-assuring response to the Coronavirus, COVID-19, pandemic in the state, especially the lockdown palliatives. Recall that the state government, before the report of the Italian index case on April 22,… April 19, 2020 In "Coronavirus Updates" The Muslims Rights Concern (MURIC), an NGO, has called on state governments to ensure transparency in the selection and distribution of palliatives to indigent Nigerians, aimed at cushioning the effects of lockdown due to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. April 17, 2020 In "News"