Rising Hip-Hop singer, Azeem Ogunbanwo has not ceased to live up to expectations in the build-up to his upcoming album titled “Alubarika”. The University of Lagos student who is known as Azixx as his stage name just dropped a single “No Loyal” through which he preaches against unfaithfulness in a relationship. Trying to discourage ladies from being unfaithful in their relationships, Azixx used the track to tell the story of a lady who got her fingers burnt on account of wanting to eat her cake and still have it by dating two guys at the same time. His upcoming album ‘Alubarika’ mastered in Dublin, the Republic of Ireland is slated to hit music shelves in December 2020. Azixx, a product of Truetalent African Records, is a Computer Science student of the University of Lagos (UNILAG). The 20-year-old started his musical career during his secondary school days where he cultivated his silky smooth vocals in hip-pop and high-life music and has gone ahead to consolidated on his discovery to becoming a songwriter and music producer. He attended St Margaret Primary School, London, United Kingdom and also continued his education in St Margret Primary School, Lagos, Nigeria and secondary school in Homat Comprehensive College. VANGUARD Reggae/dancehall singer, Patrick Nnaemeka Okorie, a.k.a. Patoranking could not hit the limelight after releasing his first five singles, ‘So nice’, ‘Up in the club’, ‘Iya Bisi’, ‘Tonight’ and ‘Park well’, under K-Solo’s Igberaga Records. But it was his smash song, ‘Alubarika’, featuring Timaya that brought him fame and fortune. May 17, 2019 In "Entertainment" Holding an audience spellbound at an event as big as Vanguard Personality of the Year Awards is not a mean task. But the story was different last Saturday night. Thousands of guests who thronged the convention hall of the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, venue of the prestigious… February 13, 2015 In "Showtime People" Sensational singer, Sonukan Babatunde Yaya, a.k.a Hybrid has dropped a new single titled, ‘Bill It On Me’. June 13, 2019 In "Entertainment"