A former House of Assembly member,  Dayo Akinleye; Afolabi Ariyo, a former aide of Ex-Governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose, and three others, on Tuesday, appeared before an Ado-Ekiti Chief Magistrate Court for the criminal act of deliberately setting property ablaze during the #EndSars protest in the state Others also arraigned were, James David, Ajimoko Busola and Oyin Filani. The Police Prosecutor, Mr Johnson Okunade told the court that the defendants committed the Offence on Oct. 20 at Ado-Ekiti. He explained that the defendants also set ablaze three trucks conveying cement, saying that the value of the damages was yet unknown. According to Okunade, the offence was punishable Under Section 451 of the Criminal Code, Cap. C 16, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012. Counsel to the defendants, Mr Kola Kolade prayed the Court to grant bail to the defendants, saying they were implicated. He also promised that the defendants would not jump bail and would always make themselves available in court. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs Olanike Adegoke consequently granted bail to the defendants in the sum of N200,000 with two sureties each adding that each of the sureties must be a Civil Servant on grade level 12. She later adjourned the matter to Nov. 11 for further hearing. Vanguard News Nigeria. The police on Wednesday arraigned Lere Olayinka, 47, the spokesman to former Ekiti Governor, Ayodele Fayose, in an Ado-Ekiti Chief Magistrates’ Court for alleged N13.5 million fraud. The defendant, of no fixed address, according to the prosecutor, Insp. Johnson Okunade, committed the offence between 2014 and 2018 at the Broadcasting… March 4, 2020 In "News" By Rotimi Ojomoyela – Ado Ekiti Thirteen herdsmen were on Friday remanded in Ekiti prison by an Ado-Ekiti Chief Magistrates' court over alleged unlawful possession of firearms to kidnap Those arraigned are, Abubakar Ali, Salisu Isah, Okasa Musa, Yususa Sani, Abu Magaji, Umar Magaji, Adamu Shelihu, Umar Sefiu, Sale Musa,… February 22, 2020 In "News" By Rotimi Ojomoyela Thirteen herdsmen were on Friday remanded in Ekiti prison by an Ado-Ekiti Chief Magistrates' court over alleged unlawful possession of firearms to kidnap. Those arraigned are, Abubakar Ali, Salisu Isah, Okasa Musa, Yususa Sani, Abu Magaji, Umar Magaji, Adamu Shelihu, Umar Sefiu, Sale Musa, Mustapha Usman, Musa… February 21, 2020 In "News"