Bayelsa government has constituted a judicial panel of inquiry as well as a special security and human rights committee in response to the demands of the #EndSARS protesters in the state Governor Douye Diri in a state radio broadcast Wednesday night in Yenagoa said the judicial panel and security and human rights committee was constituted in response to the yearnings of the youths as articulated in the demands of the EndSARS protesters. His words, “Bayelsa State government has decided to set up a judicial panel of inquiry to investigate police brutality and allegations of human rights abuses and equally set up the special security and human rights committee to supervise and monitor the new tactical unit of the police Strategic Weapons and Tactical (SWAT) squad in the state. “Accordingly, I hereby announce the following: the setting up and constitution of the judicial panel of inquiry in Bayelsa State under the authority of applicable laws of the state. “The judicial panel of inquiry which has six months to complete its assignment is headed by Retired Justice Y.B. Ogola with Barr. Alaowei Opokuma as Secretary. Others are A.T. Ambaowei, Mr Fortune Alfred Godson, Miss Perelade Demanche both representing civil society and Russell Newman representing the National Human Rights Commission. Its terms of reference include “to receive and investigate complaints of police brutality and or related extra-judicial killing in Bayelsa State; evaluate evidence, draw conclusions and make findings on the validity of the complaints; and to recommend compensation and other remedial measures.” The committee on Special Security and Human Rights is headed by Governor Diri with the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Biriyai Dambo, as Secretary. Other members are the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Mike Okoli, the State Director of State Security Services, Mr. A.A. Mahmoud, Special Adviser to the Governor on Security 1, Mr Akpoebi Agberebi, Special Adviser on Security 2, Mr. Felix Ngobiowei and Barr. Alaowei Opokuma. Mr Eugene Baadom and Dr Mathew Ayibakuro represent the National Human Rights Commission and the #EndSARS protesters respectively. The committee’s terms of reference is to supervise and monitor the SWAT unit and ensure that the rights of Bayelsans and residents are protected. Vanguard By Rasheed Sobowale The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has reacted to the direction of the National Economic Council, NEC that state governors should immediately establish state-based special security and human rights committee to supervise the newly formed police tactical units and all other security agencies. In his recent… October 16, 2020 In "SARS Update" Directs release of illegal detainees By Samuel Oyadongha - Yenagoa Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has said he is totally in support of the ongoing protest against police brutality exemplified by the hashtags #EndSARS and #EndSWAT across Nigeria noting that his administration would not condone acts that infringed on… October 18, 2020 In "News" By Peter Okutu The Protesters behind the End Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS in Ebonyi State, Monday blocked the old Government House, Abakaliki, for over six hours as they protested against Police brutality and extortion in the State. Following the blockage of the road leading to the old Government House, Abakaliki,… October 19, 2020 In "SARS Update"