India has expressed its readiness to deepen economic ties with Nigeria towards promoting investment and trade between both countries. Amb. Abhay Thakur, High Commissioner of India to Nigeria, said this during a courtesy visit to Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje on Friday in Kano. Thakur noted that India and Nigeria had long-standing relations based on mutual respect that predates the independence of the two countries. ”We are Nigeria’s largest trading partner and the country is our largest trading partner in Africa. “Our bilateral trade volume reaches $14 billion in 2020 and we export various goods ranging from machinery and agriculture products to the tune of  $3.5 billion to Nigeria,” he said. Thakur called for greater bilateral trade co-operation between Nigeria and India as a way of fostering the existing friendly trade and economic relations between the two countries which dated back to 1960. In his response, Ganduje said that relations between the countries have been warm and cordial; and have witnessed growth and transformation. The governor called for effective collaboration between India and Kano on energy, health care and film industry. He said that Indian farm implements have helped to boost rice production in Nigeria. Ganduje said that Indian companies are doing very well in the state including a hydropower project and the Indian rice mill in Kano which he said is the biggest in West Africa. He said that the state government has sponsored hundreds of students to study in India. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Indian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Rangaiah Ghanashyam has decried the lack of multiple taxation avoidance treaty and investment protection agreement between Nigeria and India. September 12, 2014 In "Business" NIGERIA’s Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr. Olusegun Aganga, has called for effective collaboration between the country and India on energy, textile, pharmaceuticals and maritime security. He made the call in Lagos during a meeting with a business delegate from India led by Mrs. Rani Mallick, the First Secretary… January 23, 2014 In "Business" Nigeria and India would mark 60 years of diplomatic relations in 2018 since the establishment of such relations in 1958. January 27, 2018 In "Business"