Following the extensive damage to various installations and government properties, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu on Friday led the team for an on-the-spot assessment of the situation across the state towards the rebuilding process. Sanwo-Olu, accompanied by the state Commissioner of Police, CP, Hakeem Odumosu, visited the council Secretariat of Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Area. He was received by Mr. Fatai Adekunle Ayoola and Mr. Fatai Ajidagba, Executive Chairmen of Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government and Ifelodun Local Council Development Area, LCDA, respectively. Sanwo-Olu, who inspected the carcasses of burnt vehicles, numbering 86 and looted offices and buildings in the secretariat expressed dismay at the actions of the vandals and urged residents and irate youths to sheathe the sword and allow peace to reign while government attends to all their demands in due course. The governor also visited the Ajeromi Divisional Police Headquarters. He sympathised with the policemen and their families in the barracks over the attack. The governor’s entourage subsequently departed for Layeni Police Station in Ifelodun LCDA to inspect the police station that was set ablaze by miscreants. Meanwhile, Sanwo-Olu has ordered the CP to deploy anti-riot policeman to various high risk and crisis-ridden areas in-order to ensure the protection of lives and properties of residents. Vanguard By Olasunkanmi Akoni Following extensive damage to various installations and government properties, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-olu on Friday led team to inspect the extent of damanges on various states properties Sanwo-Olu, accompanied by the state Commissioner of Police, CP, Hakeem Odumosu, visited the council Secretariat of Ajeromi-Ifelodun… October 23, 2020 In "News" A Lagos lawmaker, Mr Fatai Oluwa, has assured that people of Lagos State confidence will experience high-scale progress under the incoming administration of Governor-elect, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, beginning from May 29. March 26, 2019 In "News" IN what appears to be a boost to his chances of winning the March 9 governorship election in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the All Progressives Congress, APC standard bearer, has been endorsed by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, who in turn are seeking six slots in his government after his victory. March 5, 2019 In "Elections 2019 Updates"