Controversial rapper, Azeez Fashola popularly called Naira Marley has taken it upon himself to lead a protest to end the menace of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police Force, SARS, which in recent times has dominated the discourse on the country’s social media space. In a series of tweets on Monday night, Naira Marley announced that the EndSARS protest will be holding on Tuesday, October 6. According to him, the take-off point is 2nd Tollgate, in Lagos. Recall that the rapper had earlier called out Nigerians including himself for only voicing their concerns on social media without taking real actions to have their demand met by the government. Naira Marley warned that the peaceful protest will be devoid of violence, fight and stealing. “So 9 am tomorrow we move from  2nd Toll Gate. Peaceful protest. No vandalism, no fight and no stealing,” the controversial rapper said. So 9am tomorrow we move
2nd toll gate
Peaceful protest
No vandalism, no fights and no stealing. — nairamarley (@officialnairam1) October 5, 2020  Vanguard By Juliet Ebirim Popular Nigerian singer, Naira Marley has taken to Twitter to announce that he’s ready to lead a peaceful protest against constant police brutality in the country. According to him, corruption, injustice, war, and intimidation are threats to the peace of the nation, hence the need for a… October 5, 2020 In "News" Even before 2Face’s open declaration and unraveling of action plan for the protest, many of his colleagues have thrown their weights behind him with hashtag #Istandwith2baba raging like wild fire on all the social media platforms February 5, 2017 In "Entertainment" Controversies trailing the incarceration of Nigerian street music rapper, Azeez Fashola, a.k.a Naira Marley, following a Federal High Court’s order to remand him in prison pending the consideration of his bail application on May 30, 2019, are beginning to get messy as a fan has threatened to assassinate Ruggedman and… May 23, 2019 In "Entertainment"