Former Commonwealth and British Boxing champion, Peter Oboh, has called on the protesters to embrace dialogue and for the government to stop the use of force on peaceful and harmless #EndSARS protesters. In a statement, Oboh, who is retired and now a pastor, lamented the state of the nation which he described as drifting towards tyranny and anarchy. He said: “Nigeria is on fire and on the verge of anarchy. What happened yesterday (Tuesday) at the Lekki Toll Gate, Lagos, and some other cities across Nigeria is deplorable. “Under no circumstances must the army turn its guns on innocent protesters. It is high time the #ENDSARS protesters stepped down and embrace dialogue rather than double down and end up making a peaceful protest turn violence as it is happening now due to the intervention of soldiers. “It is sad that some protesters have been killed so far. On its part, government must withdraw the soldiers at once and dialogue with the protesters to chart a way forward. “The protesters have made their point and the government has acknowledged them also. They should build on this premise and move the country forward. “Most Nigerians are not in support of the atrocities committed by SARS but now the crimes committed by protesters in Edo State and Lagos speak volumes and nothing short of an attempt to spread anarchy. “Thugs going to burn down some police station in Lagos, including public property and private houses is unacceptable.” VANGUARD Following reports of killings of peaceful protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate Plaza in Lagos, ADC’s governorship candidate in the just-concluded Edo elections, Mabel Oboh, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to withdraw soldiers from the state at once to ensure peace and stability. October 21, 2020 In "News" The call by former Super Eagles defender, Emeka Ezeugo to sportsmen, both active and retired to press for the immediate release of Leah Sharibu by Boko Haram terrorists has received a strong backing from former British and Commonwealth boxing champion, Peter Oboh. October 13, 2018 In "Sports" …Lagos, Ondo, Ekiti, Osun, Imo, Plateau impose 24-hr curfew …Two policemen, two civilians killed in Lagos; 4 police stations, vehicles burnt …Six feared killed in Dutse-Alhaji, as police station set ablaze …IGP orders deployment of anti-riot police officers, Charges officers to protect lives …Protesters defy curfew in Edo, govt insists… October 21, 2020 In "SARS Update"