Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has condemned in very strong terms, the activities of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). Omo- Agege who called on security personnel to always maintain the rules of engagement, pleaded with youth in Ughelli, his constituency to exercise utmost restraint while the investigation is ongoing. In a statement, by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Yomi Odunuga, the Deputy President of the Senate expressed concern over the incessant cases of extrajudicial killings, harassment, illegal arrest and extortion of defenceless citizens by some officials attached to SARS in different parts of Nigeria. Omo- Agege specifically cited the alleged shooting of a man by operatives of SARS in his constituency in Ughelli, Delta State over the victim’s alleged refusal to allow the operatives to search his phone as well as another shooting of a youth in the town by men of the ‘Operation Delta Safe’ over the victim’s alleged refusal to allow the operatives to search his phone to buttress his argument on the need for comprehensive reforms and overhaul of security units in the country. The Deputy President of the Senate who called on the police authorities to fish out the culprits for prosecution, stressing that this will serve as a deterrent to others, said, “Those who are authorised to bear arms and maintain law and order in the country ought to understand that such must be exercised with responsibility especially when human life is sacrosanct. “I hope those who are quick at pulling the trigger would adopt strategies that would foster mutual understanding between them and those they are tasked to protect, in their bid to save the lives of Nigerians. It would be a depressing twist of fate for them to be listed among those contributing to the list of the dead in this challenging period globally.” Vanguard DEPUTY President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege Sunday  condemned in very strong terms, the killing of eight persons in Uwheru Kingdom in Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State. February 16, 2020 In "News" THE Senate said yesterday that it would probe the alleged conviction of Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo Agege, All Progressives Congress, APC, Delta Central by the  State Bar Court of the State of California, Los Angeles, USA in case No. 94-C-14401 in the United States of America, USA. January 28, 2020 In "News" The minority leader of the Delta State House of Assembly, representing Ethiope East Constituency, Hon Innocent Anidi, and Hon. Barrister Charles Oniyere, representing Ughelli North Constituency 1, of the All Progressive Congress, APC, have in a strong term condemned allegations against Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege as baseless. The duo… January 23, 2020 In "News"