The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, said “the risks of reopening nightclubs and bars are still high hence, their continued ban”. The PTF National Coordinator, Dr Sani Aliyu, said this during the PTF press briefing on Thursday in Abuja, while reacting to questions on the continued closure of nightclubs and bars, while other activities have been reopened. Aliyu said, “I have nothing against nightclubs. I don’t see anything wrong with people going to bars and nightclubs, but the nature of the environment is an enclosed space, there are no windows, people are standing very close to each other. We are yet to have a mask that people can drink through without taking it off. So you are at a great risk of transmission. “Globally, when the number starts surging look at the news, the first thing they say is that bars are closed. So that is why we are being careful, the national response that we have had in this country has been calibrated. “We have looked at every single risk. Every decision taken has not been easy, there are negotiations, arguments and so on. “But bars and nightclubs remain closed for very good reasons. At a point in time that we are very confident that we are at the right time to relax further, we will open up. “So, for those who love nightclubs, please be a bit patient with us and be hopeful that things will get back to normal.” The Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Chairman of the PTF, Boss Mustapha, responding to the same question, said: “We have nothing against nightclubs, bars, lounges but you know the nature of those places. “For obvious reasons, they are constructed in such a manner for effectiveness of either the lighting or the music. So it is always very compact. And the beauty about it is that you must be dancing and jumping shoulder to shoulder. “That is the most dangerous place to be without a face mask. Like Dr Sani said, we have not gotten to a point where you have created mask with false enclosure so that you can drink without taking off your mask or you can share in entertainment without making noise. “We are not opposed to the leisure and entertainment industry, we want to get to this new normal as quickly as possible so that we can return to our ordinary ways of life.” NAN reports that there are indications that the likelihood of vaccine coming in the next six months has become questionable hence, the need to take steps to ensure the processes of community transmission are limited.limited. (NAN) vanguardngr.com …To test 100, 000 Corps members By Omeiza Ajayi The federal government has again relaxed the Covid-19 Restrictions, saying it would however not fail to recommend stricter measures should there be gross violation of the safety protocol and an attendant spike in infections. Secretary to the Government of the Federation… October 15, 2020 In "News" Mr. Boss Mustapha, the chairman, Presidential Task Force (PTF), on COVID-19, has said that the ban on religious gathering has been lifted based on guidelines and protocols agreed with state governments. Mustapha, who is also the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, said this at the PTF on COVID-19… June 2, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has directed the "restrictive opening" of worship centres but with a caveat that relevant containment protocols against the Covid-19 be respected in line with the agreement reached between the Presidential Taskforce PTF on Covid-19 and the state governments. June 1, 2020 In "News"