The Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Muhammad Dingyadi, has pledged to ensure a comprehensive investigation into allegations of infractions against personnel of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of the Nigeria Police. The Press Secretary to the Minister, Mr Osaigbovo Ehisienmen, disclosed this in a statement on Monday in Abuja. Dingyadi said the idea was to secure justice for the victims and reprimand erring officers involved in such violation of citizens’ right and unprofessional conduct. He expressed concern over the incessant report of infractions against personnel of the squad and other Police operational units. The Minister called on the leadership of the Nigeria Police to strengthen its outfits responsible for the monitoring of personnel to ensure professional and improved service delivery. He said the recent call for the scrapping of SARS was a strong feedback mechanism to improve searchlight into SARS activities and reform the unit for better efficiency. The minister said the incident in Ughelli area of Delta was perpetrated by operatives of a unit different from SARS. He urged Nigerians to be circumspect in calling for outright disbandment of the squad set up to tackle armed robbery and other violent crimes in Nigeria. Dingyadi said the Inspector General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu had announced some measures aimed at curtailing the excesses of SARS personnel. According to him, the newly inaugurated Servicom Unit of the Ministry of Police Affairs has been mandated to work closely with the Police Public Complaint Unit and the relevant department of the Police Service Commission. He said the idea was to fast-track the resolution of all cases of infractions against police personnel and ensure that erring officers were brought to book to serve as a deterrent to others. NAN Vanguard By Kingsley Omonobi The Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi has expressed concern over the incessant report of infractions against personnel of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). Consequently, the minister has assured Nigerians of his commitments to ensure a comprehensive investigation of all allegations of infractions against SARS personnel… October 5, 2020 In "News" ...Commissioner, FSARS takes steps to enforce IGP’s directives By Emma Nnadozie, Kingsley Omonobi & Henry Umor Governors of the 36 states of the federation, under the aegis of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, NGF, have lauded the Inspector General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu, for his decision to ban with immediate… October 6, 2020 In "News" FOLLOWING public outcry over the activities of Police Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS,  across the country, the Inspector General of Police, IGP, Ibrahim Idris, has directed the immediate and total reorganisation of all SARS outfits in the country. December 4, 2017 In "Crime Guard"