Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu, governor of Ondo State and the gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the forthcoming election, has given reasons the electorate should re-elect him on Saturday. He said this at the ongoing debate anchored by Seun Akinbaloye of the Channels Television, noting that he was re-contesting to sustain what his administration had already built. On his plans in the first 100 days in office, Akeredolu said he would complete roads under construction and constructs new ones. Speaking further, he said a good number of projects his administration has ongoing would be completed in the first hundred days. The candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Jegede Eyitayo, who came in late, was given the chance to speak on his plans for the state if elected. According to him, “Things are not going too well in the state. If elected I will make things work properly. I know the challenges in the health sector, I will fix it. “The education sector needs to be reformed. When this administration entered, it increased school fees from N35,000 to N150,000. “This is too much for the people and I will fix it if elected. I will bring new ideas and fresh ideas to improve things in Ondo state.” vanguardngr.com Former president of the Nigerian Bar Association, Chief Rotimi Akeredolu last weekend achieved his long-held dream of becoming governor of Ondo State. Akeredolu who had in the past served the state as a commissioner for justice, first made a serious effort for the office of governor in 2012, when he… November 29, 2016 In "News" By Dayo Johnson Akure The leadership crisis in the Social Democratic Party, SDP, in Ondo state, has deepened as its governorship candidate, Peter Fasua, and the state party chairman, Dele Ogunbameru are split between endorsing the candidates of the All Progressives Congress, Rotimi Akeredolu and the Peoples Democratic Party, Eyitayo… October 6, 2020 In "News" By Dayo Johnson - Akure The October 2020 governorship election in Ondo State will not only be a three-horse trade but also throw up surprises. One of the aspirants in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may contest in a different party going by the politicking that's playing out in… May 25, 2020 In "Politics"