CANDIDATE of the All Progressive Congress in the governorship election in Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu has lashed the Peoples Democratic Party for raising false alarm over the appointment of a Returning Officer for this Saturday’s election. Akeredolu said that “As at the time he raised the objection, INEC had not even announced the appointment of a Returning Officer for this Saturday’s election. Recall that the Chairman of the PDP National Campaign Council for the Governorship election in Ondo State, Seyi Makinde had rejected the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede, as the Chief Returning Officer for Saturday’s Governorship election in Ondo State. But Akeredolu through the spokesperson of his campaign office, Richard Olabode Olatunde in a statement in Akure said “We find as unfortunate, the statement credited to the Governor of Oyo State and Chairman of the PDP National Campaign Council for the Governorship election in Ondo State, Seyi Makinde, rejecting the Vice-Chancellor of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede, as the Chief Returning Officer for Saturday’s Governorship election in Ondo State. “While it is forgivable for the PDP in Ondo State to continue to raise false alarm and make spurious allegations over the election, it is inexcusable for a Governor like Seyi Makinde to market ignorance in such a shameful manner. This ridicules, in no small measure, the exalted office of Governor. “As at the time he raised the objection, INEC had not even announced the appointment of a Returning Officer for this Saturday’s election. We cannot but wonder how and where Governor Makinde in particular, got the information. “Governor Makinde, as a member of the Nigerian Council of State, ought to know that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) does not, and shall never appoint a Returning Officer who is an indigene to administer elections. No indigene of Ondo State can ever be made a Returning Officer. “By this pedestrian dance, Governor Makinde has shown himself to be a disgrace to public decency and the office he is holding. “For us in the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the Akeredolu/Aiyedatiwa Campaign Organisation, we believe in fairness and credibility. Our trust in INEC on a free, fair and credible election on Saturday remains undoubted. He said that ” we urge the people of the state to disregard the ignorance exhibited by the PDP and Governor Seyi Makinde while getting set to participate in the election on Saturday. Vanguard News Nigeria The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Thursday says it will not share the responsibility of appointing collation and returning officers with individuals, groups or political parties. October 8, 2020 In "Ondo Decides" ....He's Akeredolu's kinsman - Gov Makinde By Dayo Johnson, Akure The Peoples Democratic Party Ondo state governorship National campaign council has rejected the appointment of Prof Eyitope Ogungbenro Ogunbodede, the Vice Chancellor of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife as the Chief Returning Officer of the Saturday Ondo State governorship election. Chairman… October 8, 2020 In "Politics" ABUJA—THE national hierarchy of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, rejected the outcome of Saturday’s governorship election in Ondo State and directed its candidate, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede, SAN, to head for the tribunal to cancel the poll. November 29, 2016 In "Headlines"