The Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Ondo State Election Campaign Committee and Governor of Oyo State,  Seyi Makinde, has blamed the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the incessant violent attacks in the state, ahead of the governorship poll Makinde who was in the state accompanied the PDP governorship candidate, Eyitayo Jegede to the state police headquarters in Akure to lodge complaints on the alleged violent attacks on PDP members in Akure metropolis. This was contained in a statement issued and signed by the Head, Media Research campaign organization of Jegede campaign organization, Samuel Fasua. Lodging the complaints with the state’s Commissioner of Police, Mr Bolaji Salami, Makinde said, “We have always made our campaigns issue-based, but the APC government in this state prefers violent attacks as a form of response. “Ondo people are tired and our numerous supporters have continuously been subjected to unfair treatment by those who hold the reins of power in the state. “But if they think what they did in Kogi is applicable here, they are making a mistake; because people are fully prepared for them.” Makinde, therefore, called on relevant security agencies not to shirk their statutory responsibility of ensuring a peaceful, free and fair election, next Saturday. “More still needs to be done in the area of security, because APC is trying to create voters’ apathy so as to scare people away from performing their civic responsibility on the election day, which will be resisted by the masses. “We have come here to intimate the Commissioner of Police with this ugly situation, and to extract assurance from him that the APC armed thugs would be silenced and that nobody will be intimidated on election day,” he disclosed. Vanguard News Nigeria. ... A vote for Jegede is a vote for restructuring - Govs Makinde, Tambuwal By Dayo Johnson NATIONAL Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Prince Uche Secondus has warned the ruling All Progressive Congress against rigging the Edo and Ondo state elections fixed for September 19 and October 10 this… September 12, 2020 In "Edo Decides" By Dirisu Yakubu Ahead of the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, national campaign council has tasked voters to reject “all phoney promises” by the All Progressives Congress, APC candidate and governor of the state, Rotimi Akeredolu and instead, pitch tent with Eyitayo Jegede,… September 14, 2020 In "Focus: Ondo Guber" By Dayo Johnson THE October 10 governorship election in Ondo State is panning out as a test of might between former Ondo State governor, Dr Olusegun Mimiko and current Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde. Sources said in Akure that the Mimiko and Makinde are interested in deputising former Vice President,… September 10, 2020 In "Focus: Ondo Guber"