MARITIME  THE Council for the Regu​​lation of Freight Forwarding Council of Nigeria, CRFFN, has indicated that an overwhelming majority of freight forwarding operators in Nigeria are operating without its registration. It therefore, said that the Council is set to publish the names of the defaulting operators. According to the Council, only 64 out of 787 members are registered. Speaking to newsmen in Lagos yesterday, Chairman of the Council, Barrister Sam Nwakohu, said that the Council has concluded its integration exercise with both the Nigeria Customs Service, with regards to registration of freight forwarders. Nwakohu also said that the Council has completed integration with eight terminals in Lagos while the integration with ports in the South and South East are on-going. He explained that the integration will go  pari parsu  with the enforcement of the collection of Practitioners Operating Fee, POF, by terminal operators. He stated: “We are glad to inform you that following the successful integration with terminal operators in the Western ports, enforcement of Practitioners Operating Fee, POF, collection has commenced. “The POF is derived from the provisions of Section 6 of CRFFN Act is a major source of our internally generated revenue, first for the government and secondly to drive the necessary reforms and develop the industry. Anybody or organization that fails to pay the POF contravenes the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “More will be done as time goes on. We do not want to wait for the commencement of enforcement.” Minister of Transportation Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has stated that freight forwarders who do not follow the established processes as stated by law will not be allowed to operate in Nigeria. October 30, 2019 In "News" Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, said yesterday that freight forwarders who do not follow established processes as enshrined in the law would not be allowed to operate in Nigeria. October 30, 2019 In "News" IN a bid to facilitate trade at the Nigerian seaports and enhance cross border trade, African Centre for Supply Chain, ACSC, and the Council for Regulation of Freight Forwarders of Nigeria, CRFFN, are currently in talks to enhance the capacity of freight forwarders, sharpening their skills for international trade. April 10, 2019 In "News"