Reactions have started pouring in, minutes after President Muhammadu Buhari addressed Nigerians. Shehu Sani, a senator who represented Kaduna Central in the last Senate, Thursday reacted to Buhari’s speech, and in a poetic tone opined: “You asked for speech, you got the speech and now you are speechless.” Of course Nigerians had since the inception of #ENDSARS protests demanded to be spoken to by Mr. President, who deemed it necessary to address them today. Some of the key points from Buhari’s speech include: Asking youths to discontinue street protests Says his administration will not allow anyone disrupt Nigeria’s peace Says Govt promptness to act misconstrued as weakness Reaffirms Govt commitment to preserving Nigeria’s unity Urges Int’l community to get their facts right before making hasty pronouncements Lists his achievements and plans Having listened to him speak on a national television, Sani said: “You asked for speech, you got the speech and now you are speechless.” If you don’t understand what Baba said you must have mistakenly press the Swahili or Spanish button. One of my Boys is just angry I disrupted his Nickelodeon.” You ask for speech,you got the speech and now you are speechless. — Senator Shehu Sani (@ShehuSani) October 22, 2020  If you don’t understand what Baba said you must have mistakenly press the Swahili or Spanish button. — Senator Shehu Sani (@ShehuSani) October 22, 2020  One of my Boys is just angry I disrupted his Nickelodeon. — Senator Shehu Sani (@ShehuSani) October 22, 2020  Vanguard ***Says New bill to regulate the social media poses a serious danger to freedom of speech and expression. By Henry Umoru Executive Director African Centre for Peace and Development, Senator Shehu Sani has advised the Senators against being used by the Executive to emasculate the freedom of expression through the introduction of… November 13, 2019 In "News" SENATOR Shehu Sani who represented Kaduna Central in the 8th Senate first on the platform of All Progressives Congress, APC and later the Peoples Redemption Party, PRP have asked President Muhammadu Buhari not to crush protesters or jail dissenters. August 25, 2019 In "News" Senator Shehu Sani (APC, Kaduna Central), on Sunday, said that Senate’s clearance of former Governor of Rivers State, Chibuike Amaechi as minister, was not a tacit endorsement of corruption. November 1, 2015 In "News"