The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Transportation, Dr. Magdalene Ajani, Wednesday, inaugurated newly constituted members of the Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU) of the Ministry in Abuja. The Permanent Secretary who was represented by the Director, Special Duties, Mrs. Kafayat O. Salami identified corruption as a drawback in the nation’s quest for growth and development. A statement issued late Wednesday evening by Eric Ojiekwe, Director, Press and Public Relations, Federal Ministry of Transportation, quoted the Permanent Secretary as saying that countries all over the world are fighting against all forms of corruption in a bid to entrench good governance. Furthermore, she said in response to the monumental damages inflicted on the country’s economy as a result of corruption that “the current administration adopted the fight against corruption as one of its key strategic objectives to salvage the nation’s almost crippled economy” by working with some agencies like the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Offences Related Commission, ICPC  ICPC, and ACTU to inject sanity in public service. Dr. Ajani charged all members of the unit to maintain personal integrity at all times in the discharge of their duties. On his part, the representative of the Chairman, Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU) of the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Mr. Patrick Okolie congratulated the Federal Ministry of Transportation for the inauguration of ACTU and called on the ministry and it’s members to comply with all adopted government policies, initiatives and programmes. vanguardngr.com ABUJA: The Federal Government has called on Public Servants to always operate within the country’s system of laws, rules and regulations, to deliver quality and timely service to the public. July 26, 2019 In "News" THE FederalMinistry of Labour and Productivity has inaugurated an anti-corruption monitoring unit aimed at a new social, economic and political order in support of the Federal Government’s anti corruption crusade. September 8, 2014 In "News" BARRING any unforeseen circumstances, all appears set for the take off of the construction of the Ibadan Inland Dry Port, IDP, as negotiation between the Federal Government and China Railway Construction Corporation Limited, CRCC, the preferred bidders for the construction of the IDP, is nearing completion. July 15, 2020 In "Business"