The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu has banned the personnel of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) and other Tactical Squads of the Force including the Special Tactical Squad (STS), Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Anti-Cultism Squad and other Tactical Squads operating at the Federal, Zonal and Command levels from carrying out routine patrols. Federal SARS and the Special Squads are also banned from carrying out routine patrolx and other conventional low-risk duties including stop and search duties, checkpoints, mounting of roadblocks, traffic checks, etc – with immediate effect. A statement by DCP Frank Mba on Sunday said, “In addition, no personnel of the Force is authorized to embark on patrols or tactical assignments in mufti. They must always appear in their police uniforms or approved tactical gear. “The IGP’s directives come against the backdrop of findings by the leadership of the Force that a few personnel of the Tactical Squads hide under disguise to perpetrate all forms of illegality, contrary to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), Code of Conduct and Rules of Engagement establishing the squads. “Specifically, the IGP has warned the Tactical Squads against the invasion of the privacy of citizens particularly through indiscriminate and unauthorized search of mobile phones, laptops and other smart devices. “They are to concentrate and respond only to cases of armed robbery, kidnapping and other violent crimes when the need arises. Continuing Mba said, “The IGP notes that the FSARS and other Police Tactical Squads remain a critical component of the Force in confronting prevailing and emerging violent crimes in the country. , “He, however, condemns every act of unprofessionalism, abuse of human rights and high-handedness by some personnel of the Squads. ” He has therefore ordered the X-Squad and the Monitoring Unit to embark on immediate and massive nationwide monitoring of activities of Tactical Squads and other police officers on the road. “They are to ensure prompt arrest, investigation and prosecution of all erring police officers who violate these directives and other extant regulations of the Force. “The IGP has equally warned, that henceforth, the Commissioner of Police in charge of FSARS, Commissioners of Police in charge of State Commands and the FCT as well as their supervisory Zonal Assistant Inspectors General of Police, will be held liable for any misconduct within their Area of Responsibility (AOR). “He, therefore, charged them to ensure effective supervision and mentoring of the personnel of the Tactical Squads under their jurisdiction. Meanwhile, two operatives of the FSARS and their civilian accomplice operating in Lagos State, Inspector Sale James, Inspector Monday Uchiola and Okechukwu Ogbonna, have been arrested by the Lagos State Police Command, for acts of professional misconduct including extortion and intimidation of innocent citizens. The operational vehicle of the men has also been impounded and disciplinary procedure has already commenced against the defaulters. “The IGP reaffirms his commitment to bequeathing to Nigerians, a reformed Police Force that is accountable, responsible and ever ready to defend and uphold the rights of the citizens while discharging its duties of keeping the people safe and secure” the FPRO added “He enjoins the citizens not to allow the misconduct by a few personnel of the Force to negatively impact on their belief, confidence and trust in the Police.” Vanguard News Nigeria ...DIG in charge of South-west to coordinate ...191 Suspects arrested By Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja In the wake of recent activities of hoodlums and street urchins in the border communities between Lagos and Ogun States, the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammwd Adamu has ordered the immediate deployment of additional… April 14, 2020 In "News" Acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the immediate disbandment of the Federal SARS. January 21, 2019 In "News" .Says 'IGP taken us back to the dark days' Victor Ogunyinka Following the directive of the acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, that the Federal Special Anti Robbery Squad (FSAR) should be disbanded, the convener of the #ENDSARS, #ReformPoliceNG campaign, Segun Awosanya, has stated that this decision is a step… January 21, 2019 In "News"