Two women died on Monday in a vicious struggle for COVID-19 palliatives looted by hoodlums in a warehouse on the Secretariat road in Gwagwalada Area Council, Abuja. Vanguard correspondent learnt that many people were stabbed, some fainted in the commotion, while several others were injured during the struggle. The palliatives were said to have included rice, salt, noodles, spaghetti and sugar, as well as other condiments. Sources said that attempts were made to revive those who fainted while the corpses of the deceased women were taken away by some residents. A mob had besieged the warehouse around 8:00am to ‘collect’ their own share of the food items neither maintaining any queues nor having security personnel around. An eyewitness, simply identified as Uhiene, said the process was smooth until around midday when it was disrupted by some impatient persons. “Right now, they (thugs) are pushing people inside, some persons are fainting, some are dying inside,” she added. Another eyewitness, who preferred anonymity, said: “Getting into the warehouse was very tough and hard. I suffered some bruises, but glory be to God, I made it; because, it was not an easy feat. “Some are dying in there (the warehouse), others are suffocating, sweating…. There was a woman of 21-years-old that died inside. Another woman also died. “I saw them myself. They were stepped upon when they fell down (in the stampede). The women couldn’t stand up. They were were trampled upon and killed.” Meanwhile, the FCT Minister, Malam Mohammed Musa Bello, has ordered the arrest and prosecution of the people who broke the warehouse where CACOVID palliatives were being stored in Gwagwalada. As at the time of filing this report, military personnel have moved in to restore calm in the area while the FCT State Police Command has yet to speak of the attack on the warehouse. Vanguard News Nigeria The Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) on Monday said the looted COVID-19 palliative in warehouses in some states were not hoarded but kept for vulnerable. The NGF Head of Media and Public Affairs, Mr Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo, made the clarification in a statement issued on Monday morning in Abuja. ”While some states… October 26, 2020 In "News" ...As angry mob storms FCT aluminum market, Idu Industrial Layout  By Luminous Jannamike Hoodlums on Monday attacked a warehouse where COVID-19 palliatives are kept at Secretariat road, Gwagwalada Area Council, Abuja. After the hoodlums gained entrance into the warehouse, they looted some COVID-19 palliatives, a resident in the area said.… October 26, 2020 In "News" By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja The Africa Network for Environment and Economic Justice, ANEEJ, Sunday, condemned and called for a probe of alleged hoarded COVID-19 palliatives. This was contained in a statement signed by the Executive Director, ANEEJ, Rev David Ugolor, while reacting to the discovery of the items stored… October 25, 2020 In "News"