Life Lager said it is set to support over 200 businesses with a cumulative sum of over N40 million in its progress booster campaign, “Chop Life Experience”.  The campaign is designed to empower consumers with cash to support their businesses and would be done through in-bar activations across Southeastern cities including Enugu, Aba, Uyo, Warri, Onitsha and Port Harcourt. Commenting on the campaign National Trade Marketing Manager, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Funso Ayeni, said: “As a brand, Life Lager believes in progress and the Chop Life Experience is our way of empowering our consumers. We recognise that sometimes all we need is financial support to get our dreams off the ground, and help us progress. We share this sentiment, and we are humbled to have the opportunity to support businesses across the southeast.  “Life Lager has had a stellar year with remarkable initiatives such as their brand’s relaunch, as well as the widely acclaimed lighting of the Niger Bridge and the release of its theme song titled “Chop Life” featuring Phyno and Flavour.”  Life Lager Beer was first brewed in Onitsha, Anambra State in 1981 and has since grown from a regional beer brand to becoming one of the leading lager brands in the country. The brand is best known for its rich taste and its optimistic theme of progress. Thirty entrepreneurs based in Abia state have been empowered with N7.5 million to boost their businesses through the support of Life Continental Lager Beer, brewed by Nigerian Breweries, NB, Plc. November 1, 2016 In "News" LIFE Progress Booster, the entrepreneurial radio show that supports upcoming businesses in South-East Nigeria, sponsored by Life Continental Lager Beer has announced plans to support 200 entrepreneurs with N300, 000 each, up from the N250, 000 it gave to individual entrepreneurs in 2016. May 17, 2017 In "Business" Twenty Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) have received N6million boost from Life Continental Lager Beer development initiative tagged, Life Progress Booster. October 18, 2018 In "Business"