Northern youths under the aegis of the Coalition Of Northern Nigerian Youth, CNNY, groups have urged the Senate Chief Whip, Sen. Orji Uzor Kalu,  to contest the 2023 presidential election. The youths said this in a statement. The statement was signed by the National Coordinator, CNNY, Amb. Zarewa Salisu Sageer, National Secretary, CNNY, Amb. Abu Bature Dandume, North Central Coordinator, CNNY, Comr. Muhammad Yakubu Arigu, Coordinator, North East, CNNY, Amb. Amos Ishaku, Coordinator North West, CNNY, Amb. Adamu Kicinga. The Coalition comprising Northern Youth Council Of Nigeria, NYCN, Association Of Northern Nigerian Students, ANNS, Arewa Youth Consultative Council, AYCC, Arewa Youth For Good Governance, AYGG, noted that it has become absolutely imperative to  urge Kalu to contest. According to the youths, Sen. Kalu has the leadership acumen, capacity, dexterity and contacts to be Nigeria’s President. The statement read: “We are Coalition Of Northern Nigerian Youth groups comprises Northern Youth Council Of Nigeria, NYCN, Association Of Northern Nigerian Students, ANNS, Arewa Youth Consultative Council, AYCC, Arewa Youth For Good Governance, AYGG, under the auspices of the Northern Nigerian Peace Foundation, NNPF, with the sole aim of advancing Good Governance, National Unity, Promotion of Religious Tolerance for the peaceful existence and the overall advancement of socio-economic development of Nigeria. “Out of our curiosity and positive thought, it has become absolutely imperative to write and urge his Excellency, the former Governor of Abia State and the current Chief Whip of the Senate, Distinguished Senator (Dr.) Orji Uzor Kalu to contest for the 2023 Presidential election as we believe that, he has the leadership acumen, capacity, dexterity and contacts to govern a complex nation like Nigeria. “We believe that his personality, foresight, leadership style and experience will bring lots of development and prosperity to millions of Nigerians. “Nigerians must also know that the goodwill, respect, honour and popularity enjoyed by him across the nation is because of his undying influence and love for the unity and development of Nigeria. “We believe that honour is reciprocal and that if a man is honoured by his people, it will only be right for the one that is honoured to also honour those that honoured him. “The best way Dr Orji Uzor Kalu can reciprocate the immense goodwill, respect and honour given to him by Nigerians is to heed to this call to contest the 2023 presidential election.  We hope he will make it to the number one position in Nigeria and chart a new course for our nation through purposeful and selfless leadership. ” Vanguard By Gabriel Ewepu NORTHERN youths under the auspices of Coalition Of Northern Nigerian Youth, CNNY, groups, Thursday, explained why they want former Governor of Abia State and now serving Senator, Dr Orji Uzor Kalu, to be Nigeria’s next President in 2023. This was contained in a statement signed by the… October 1, 2020 In "News" By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja Northern youths under the auspices of Coalition Of Northern Nigerian Youth, CNNY, groups, Thursday, explained why they want former Governor of Abia State and now serving Senator, Dr Orji Uzor Kalu, to be Nigeria’s next President in 2023. This was contained in a statement signed… October 1, 2020 In "Politics" Accuses APC chieftains in the S/East of Abandoning Kalu Thank  Northern Elders for support during Kalu's Travails By Ibrahim HassanWuyo The Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, AYCF, has reiterated that the North still wanted the presidency in 2023 and would not cede power to the South. President of the AYCF, Shettima… June 16, 2020 In "News"