Nollywood actress, Angela Okorie who has been offline for more than one month now, has resurfaced again as she writes an open letter to President Buhari, asking him to listen to the Nigerian youths by scrapping off FSARS without further delay. Okorie’s letter was coming a few days after top actress, Genevieve Nnaji also wrote a similar letter to Mr President. In a post on her Instagram page on Sunday, Okorie said she can’t keep quiet anymore in as much she doesn’t want to be online at the moment for reasons best known to her. The light-skinned actress, however, urged President Buhari to listen to the cry of the Nigerian youths, as they stand up against one particular thing. According to her, there are a lot of things they are lacking in the country but aren’t asking for any of that now. But only to end SARS so they can live in the country peacefully. She wrote: “I can’t deny that I don’t know what is going on in the country, and I feel that is the right time for me to use my platform to speak. ” ‘The Nigerian youths are not protesting for food, good roads, jobs, lights and other social amenities which you know that those are the things we also lack in the country; what we are asking for in one voice is that the government should #Endsars#Endpolicebrutality.” ‘We are scared, we are tired of the innocent killings here and there, which is shown on all social media platforms, your silence will only make things worse, you need to speak to the people. Don’t make us believe our president is a ghost .” “Mr President sir, we are not mind readers. We can’t know what’s on your mind. But the fact remains that the lost innocent souls are our brothers and sisters. The everyday killings and harassment from SARS is heartbreaking, unbearable and sad. Enough is enough. The killings and bullying has to stop,” Okorie wrote. Vanguard NOLLYWOOD actress, Angela Okorie, is indeed becoming more controversial than ever before. Last week, the mother of one took on the singer, Bobrisky, blasting him for developing the habit of applying make-up to attract attention from the social media community. January 27, 2017 In "Entertainment" Nollywood star, Genevieve Nnaji has written a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, narrating her 13-year-old niece’s experience in the hands of SARS operatives for owning a laptop, and telling the President that what the country is today is a reflection of his leadership. October 9, 2020 In "Metro" The last has not been heard of the war of words between Angela Okorie and controversial Journalist/Blogger, Kemi Omololu-Olunloyo, who branded the Nollywood actress a prostitute and accused her of collecting $1.5m from the alleged $11m stolen by the immediate ex-President of Gambia Yahya Jammeh. February 1, 2017 In "News"