Minister of the Federal Capital Territory FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has asked those who looted warehouses in the territory to return their loot, directing security agencies in the territory to go after them and ensure their arrest and prosecution. Warehouses including those privately owned had come under raid in various parts of Abuja since Saturday. On Monday, another warehouse in Gwagwalada where COVID-19 palliatives were stored was looted, with the looters saying it would take them about two days to empty the expansive storage facility. However, speaking at an emergency security meeting on Monday, Bello who asked those who looted the food items to return them immediately, said there would be a massive deployment of security operatives in and around the factories at the Idu Industrial Layout. According to him, what was ongoing was no longer #EndSARS protest but broad daylight stealing by hoodlums. Also, Minister of State in the FCT, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu condemned the development, saying no nation can survive without food reserves which are now being looted across the country. Aliyu charged Council chairmen and royal fathers to reach out to opinion leaders to unite the people against looters. Royal fathers at the meeting called for decisive actions to be taken against those looting across the city. They said hoodlums are beginning to enter markets shops and personal business premises. Vanguard By Ike Uchechukwu,Calabar The Cross River State Police Command on Sunday began the arrest of those who vandalized various government property in the state capital. The Command also apprehended those who looted private offices, homes as well as those who invaded the office of a National Assembly member, carting away… October 26, 2020 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi It was a day of rage on Sunday as hoodlums invaded several warehouses in the Federal Capital Territory FCT Abuja, carting away agricultural produce, textiles and other items. Facilities affected were warehouses at the Idu Industrial Layout, a warehouse in Dakibiyu village in Jabi district, belonging to… October 25, 2020 In "News" By Marie-Therese Nanlong Hoodlums who took advantage of the #ENDSARS protest in Plateau State to loot public and private premises in the Jos and Bukuru metropolis have been given a grace period of three days to return all looted items to the nearest local government office in the State before… October 26, 2020 In "News"