Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday that government’s plan to investigate brutality and prosecute erring police officers, create new state-based Security and Human Rights Committees, as well as provide compensation to victims of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), would be the game-changer in ensuring an end to impunity. The Vice President stated this when he received American government delegation including the US Assistant Secretary, Bureau for Democracy, Human Rights and Labour, Bob Destro; US Assistant Secretary, Bureau for Conflict Stabilization Operations, Denise Natali; the Counselor of the US Department of State, Thomas Ulrich Brechbuhl; and the Charge d’Affairs, US Embassy, Kathleen FitzGibbon at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Also at the meeting was Nigeria’s Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama. Prof. Osinbajo said at least 13 states in the country including Lagos, have since established Judicial Panels “to seek justice and to compensate those whose rights have been breached.” He told his quests that President Muhammadu Buhari has already supported the decisions of the National Economic Council, NEC. Recall that on October 12, NEC, which is chaired by Prof Osinbajo with all State Governors and FCT Minister as members, resolved on the immediate establishment of State-based Judicial Panels of Inquiry across the country to receive and investigate complaints of police brutality or related extra-judicial killings to deliver justice for all victims of the dissolved SARS and other police units. According to the Vice President, NEC also agreed on the provision of monetary compensation to victims and prosecution of erring officers. Responding to the concerns of the US government on instances of impunity in the country, the Vice President noted that these efforts are part of the Nigerian government’s commitment to implement extensive police reforms adding that the establishment of Judicial Panels of Inquiry nationwide will further ensure that the Police and other security agencies ensure the protection of human rights of citizens. He said, “The concerns around impunity are some of the concerns that informed the establishment of Judicial Panels of Inquiry across states. Each state is now required to establish judicial inquiry that will look into cases of impunity, excessive use of force, extrajudicial killings etc., especially by law enforcement agents.” “Aside from two representatives of Civil Society groups, these Judicial Panels will have youth representatives and a representative from the National Human Rights Commission, among others. Each State is also required to have what is called the Special Security and Human Rights Committee to ensure that law enforcement and security agencies protect the Human Rights of citizens.” “Government is paying attention. The point we are making is that protests are a means to an end, but they cannot be the end. We are very optimistic that what we have put in place would eventually yield the best possible results for us,” Prof Osinbajo stated. He also highlighted what he termed false narratives about Nigeria, including the herder-farmer crisis, especially in North Central states, and the politics behind the allegations. The Vice President further said that the herder-farmer crisis was exacerbated mainly because of land and resources struggle than from the misinterpreted Christians-versus-Muslim narrative. Members of the United States delegation from Washington DC offered to collaborate with the Federal Government on these issues, a suggestion welcomed by the Vice President hoping that such cooperation will create better understanding of the issues. Vanguard A United States representative, Counselor T. Ulrich Brechbühl, has met with Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo on the ongoing violence in Nigeria as a result of the agitations over police brutality. The meeting was part of a previously scheduled delegation, which included Assistant Secretary Robert Destro and Assistant Secretary Denise… October 22, 2020 In "News" THE Federal Government has described the hoopla generated by President Muhammadu Buhari’s letter to the National Assembly, in which he said Vice President Yemi Osinbajo will coordinate the activities of the government in his absence, as a needless distraction. May 11, 2017 In "Headlines" VICE President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Thursday, expressed appreciation to God as he marked his 61st birthday anniversary, saying that he was gradually getting to the class of senior citizens. March 8, 2018 In "News"