The Nigerian Army has said that its planned Exercise Crocodile Smile VI, has nothing to do with the End SARS protests. Sagir Musa, a Colonel and Acting Director Army Public Relations, stated that the attention of the Nigerian Army (NA) has been drawn to some social media stuff wrongfully condemning the Army and its Leadership over the announcement of Exercise CROCODILE SMILE VI, particularly the Cyber Warfare Component of the Exercise. “This year’s Exercise CROCODILE SMILE is scheduled to commence from the 20th of October to the 31st of December 2020 has no relationship with any lawful protest under any guise whatsoever. “For the records, Exercise CROCODILE SMILE is a yearly exercise in the NA Calendar/Forecast of Events which traditionally holds from October to December of each year. “Thus, to now insinuate that it is an exercise meant to stifle the ongoing ENDSARS protest is to say the least highly misinformed. Exercise CROCODILE SMILE VI has nothing to do with the ongoing protest and the NA has never been involved in the ongoing protest in any form whatsoever. So far, the army has acted professionally since the civil protest started over two weeks ago. “The army hereby enjoins all law abiding Nigerians to go about their lawful activities unhindered as the Exercise has nothing to do with ENDSARS protest, but a yearly event set out to train NA officers and soldiers  in its efforts to ensuring safety and security of Nigeria and her citizens,” he stated. Vanguard By Nwafor Sunday As Nigerians protest against police brutality, maltreatment, extra-judicial killings, and abuse of power, must especially by the operatives of Special anti-robbery Squad, SARS, Nigerian army, Saturday promised to launch ‘exercise Crocodile smile’, an operation that would assist in identifying terrorists in the country. Billed to commence on… October 17, 2020 In "SARS Update" The Nigerian Army said, on Saturday, it would commence Exercise Crocodile Smile VI, which is usually conducted annually to checkmate the activities criminals across the country during the ember months, but this time with a special interest in the cyberspace. October 17, 2020 In "SARS Update" ...Says it's ill-timed, could exacerbate citizens' distrust, lack of confidence in State institutions By Luminous Jannamike No fewer than 30 civil society organizations, on Sunday called on Federal Government to prevail on the Nigerian Army to suspend its planned 'Operation Crocodile Smile VI'. They made the call in view of… October 18, 2020 In "News"