Youth Party has rejected the nomination of Lauretta Onochie as the National Commissioner representing South-South in the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, made by President Muhammadu Buhari. The party in a statement on Friday said the Nigeria Constitution is clear on the requirements for qualification for appointment as an INEC National Commissioner. Pointing out item F, 14(2a) of the Third Schedule of the 1999 Constitution(as amended), a member of the Commission of the INEC shall “be non-partisan and a person of unquestionable integrity”. The statement reads in part “This is clearly objectionable, questionable and above all, an unconstitutional nomination made by the President. “Lauretta Onochie not only serves as the Senior Special Assistant on Social Media to President Buhari, she is also a member of the All Progressive Congress, APC. Her position on party politics has been widely circulated in the digital media space one of which is that “those who subscribe to political parties would also have understood that “Party is Supreme”…”. “Lauretta Onochie has also been seen recently parading herself in a full APC regalia and has participated in many APC electioneering activities. “It is on this aforementioned that we reject and hold that the nomination of Lauretta Onochie is not only unconstitutional, but a flagrant disregard of law by the president. “Consequently, the assembly of the people “The Senate” is hereby advised that such nomination should not be confirmed on the basis that it is unconstitutional”. Vanguard News Nigeria By Ikechukwu Nnochiri - Abuja The Nigerian Civil Society Situation Room, on Tuesday, kicked against the nomination of President Muhammadu Buhari's Senior Special Assistant on Social Media, Ms Lauretta Onochie, as National Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, representing the South-South. The Situation Room which is a coalition… October 13, 2020 In "News" The Muhammadu Buhari regime has since inception taken some unpopular, questionable and objectionable decisions in terms of policy options and appointments which are antithetical to the Constitution and the nation’s over all interests. These include appointments into public offices bordering on nepotism, rejection of assent to bills for electoral reform,… October 15, 2020 In "Editorial" By Henry Umoru FOURTEEN leading Civil Society Organisations, CSOs have taken a swipe at President Muhammadu Buhari following his nomination of his Special Assistant, Social Media, Lauretta Onochie as a National Commissioner for the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC for Screening and subsequent confirmation. Also yesterday, Senator Dino Melaye who… October 13, 2020 In "News"