Toronto lawyer Annamie Paul was Saturday named head of the Green Party, becoming the first Black woman to lead a national political party in Canada. The 47-year-old mother of two, the daughter of immigrants from the Caribbean, described herself as a “descendant of slaves.” Paul hailed her victory as a “historic moment” during her speech after the announcement of the results of the internal ballot in Ottawa. “We have done something that has never been done before in Canadian politics,” said the Jewish lawyer, who has reported being the victim of anti-Semitic attacks on social media. “Colonialism has robbed me of my original identity,” Paul added in her speech, saying she was ready to support indigenous peoples in particular in their fight against systemic racism within the police. She succeeds Elizabeth May, who led the Greens for 13 years before stepping down at the end of 2019, following a federal legislative election where her party won only three seats in the House of Commons. Paul said that under her leadership the party would have two priorities: building a social security net for all Canadians and tackling “the existential crisis of our time, which is the climate emergency.” “This is the chance of a lifetime for us to move towards a more just, a more resilient society,” she said. “We believe it can be done.” To repair the economic ravages of the coronavirus pandemic, Paul said the government needed to invest in a “green transition” for a path to the future. “The choice is yours, if we want different outcomes then we need to make different choices,” said Paul, who previously worked at the International Criminal Court. The lawyer who is the new leader of the Greens party said she will run in a legislative by-election in Toronto at the end of October, in the constituency vacated after the surprise resignation of former Liberal finance minister Bill Morneau. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Enough of our men, the next level should allow women to be part of the running of our country. Let me sound it clear to all, Nigeria owes so much to ladies. Nkiru Chidubem Onyejeocha, a fourth timer, should be the next Speaker of the House of Representatives. It is… April 20, 2019 In "Emissary" Some of Nigeria’s top lawyers were yesterday divided over the move by the All Progressives Congress, APC to have Mrs. Patience Jonathan, wife of President Goodluck Jonathan prosecuted by the International Criminal Court over alleged hate speech. March 10, 2015 In "News" Mrs Boma Ozobia, is the President, Commonwealth Lawyers Association, CLA. Before the commencement of the April general elections, the CLA had visited the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, headquarters, Abuja, to ascertain its preparedness to deliver credible elections April 21, 2011 In "Law & Human Rights"