Kwara state government has announced the reopening of all public and private schools across the state with effect from Monday, October 5, 2020, while Tertiary institutions are to resume as from October 12, 2020. Recall that schools had been ordered shut since 23rd March following the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, which is largely believed to still be with us. While urging students and schools authorities to strictly adhere to COVID-19 safety protocols, the state warned that any school that failed in this regard risk being shut. This is contained in a press statement issued last night by state Commissioner for Communications Harriet Afolabi-Oshatimehin made available to journalists in Ilorin. According to the statement, “With various pieces of training held for teachers on how to protect themselves and students from the COVID-19 infection, improved manpower in monitoring and case tracings, and an appreciable guarantee of some protection for the children, the government hereby directs the reopening of elementary schools from October 5. “Similarly, state-owned tertiary institutions are to reopen from October 12 or as may be determined by their respective governance structures. “COVID-19 is still with us. The government, therefore, urges school authorities to ensure that all safety protocols are adhered to, including physical distance, use of face masks, and constant washing of hands with soap and water, in order to flatten the curve of transmission of the virus. “The government similarly wishes our students and teacher a safe stay in school while promising to continue to do its best to keep the citizens safe at all times. Schools with scanty regards for safety protocols risk being shut.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Kwara State Government on Wednesday announced the resumption of academic activities for public and private schools in the state from Monday, Oct 5. A statement by the Commissioner for Communications, Harriet Afolabi-Oshatimehin in Ilorin, said that state-owned tertiary institutions are also to reopen from Oct. 12 or as may be… September 30, 2020 In "Education" A Nigerian virtuous widow, mother of five children identified as Mrs. Esther Ahmadu, who recently retired as a teacher in the civil service in Kogi State has demonstrated that there is more to motherhood than childbirth. The unflinching effort of Mrs. Esther Ahmadu over her children despite roaring obstacles… August 11, 2020 In "Education" By James Ogunnaike Ogun State Government has announced Monday, 21 September 2020 for the reopening of schools in the state for the first term of 2020/2021 session. Vanguard reports that the state government, however, reduced the hours for primary and secondary school to three hours. In a statement by the… September 7, 2020 In "Education"