The Nigerian Society of Substance Use Prevention and Treatment Professionals, ISSUP Nigeria has applauded the Federal Government over its proposed plan to phase out high concentration alcohol in sachets, small PET, and glass bottles, describing it as a step in the right direction to curbing abuse. The  National Agency for Foods and Drugs Administration and Control, NAFDAC recently announced this move, following a report that alcohol consumption contributed to three million deaths each year, globally,  as well as to the disabilities and poor the health of millions of people. NAFDAC also described uncontrolled access and availability of high concentration alcohol in sachet and small volume PET or glass bottles as a factor contributing to substance and alcohol abuse in Nigeria, with its negative impact on society. Throwing his weight behind the proposed ban, the national President, ISSUP Nigeria, Dr. Martin Agwogie said,  “Recent studies have raised concerns on the increasing rate of the use and abuse of alcohol with the attendant economic, social, and medical adverse effects upon the individual, family, and community”. He, therefore, called on all stakeholders in the field of drug demand reduction in the country to support this move, expressing worry over the involvement of children and adolescents in the consumption of high concentration alcohol. He said: “alcohol has become more readily available in small sachets with extremely high concentration, cheap, and appearing more attractive to the young ones. Alcohol is now easier and cheaper to get in some communities than to get water. “The human brain is not fully developed until the early 20s. Therefore, we must protect the young ones against the use of any psychoactive substance, including alcohol”, he said, even as he pledged the association’s commitment and support towards enforcement of evidence-based drug and substance abuse control policies. Vanguard The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) says it will totally ban production of alcohol drink in sachets by 2023/2024. Its Director-General, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday that banning of the product would come in phases. Adeyeye said that… September 30, 2020 In "News" The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) says the production capacity of alcohol products in sachets has been reduced by 50 per cent. Mr Sayo Akintola, the NAFDAC Resident Media Consultant, made this known on Friday in Lagos. Akintola said that NAFDAC was currently monitoring the… September 25, 2020 In "Health" Laments high consumption by Nigerians By Chioma Obinna The National Agency for Food Administration and Control, NAFDAC, Weekend expressed worry over the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in sachets and small volume glass and Poly-Ethylene Terephthalate (PET) bottles. The Agency in a press statement signed by the Director-General of… September 13, 2020 In "Health"