The National Campaign Council of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, for Ondo Governorship Election, yesterday condemned Ondo state Governor,  Rotimi Akeredolu’s comments on the duo of Olusegun Mimiko, the immediate past governor of the state and a former Chief Judge of Ondo state Justice Sehinde Kumuyi. The PDP in a statement described the comments as an irresponsible hate speech and the highest form of political terrorism in our national contemporary history, which must be condemned by all. The PDP said it was shocked by the latest of such comments, wherein  Governor Akeredolu, on national television on Sunday, declared key Ondo citizens as his “enemies for life” for rejecting him and his party, the APC ahead of the October 10, 2020 governorship elections. The statement reads in part: “Akeredolu’s statement that former Governor Olusegun Mimiko and former Chief Judge, Seyinde Kumuyi “are my enemies for life because they chose to support someone else. I hope God will forgive me” is an irresponsible hate speech and the highest form of political terrorism in our national contemporary history, which must be condemned by all. “We know that Governor Akeredolu and the APC have become deflated and overwhelmed by the massive support for Eyitayo Jegede and the PDP across the state, but it is indeed unfortunate that the Governor can toe such ungodly path in his desperation to cling to power despite being allegedly rejected by his people due to his failures.” “It is equally unfortunate that even as a Christian, Governor Akeredolu had decided to tread a course that is totally against the tenets of the holy book, to name others “enemies for life” because of blind desperation to hold on to office.” “This is akin to the desperation exhibited by the biblical rejected Cain, who slew his brother, Abel, out of envy for being more preferred because of his good works.” The PDP added that “Nigerians now better understand why Governor Akeredolu has refused to serve the people of Ondo state; because he sees them as “enemies for life”. This explains why Governor Akeredolu and his party the APC have been imposing heavy taxes, increasing levies and fees and taking all manner of steps to allegedly make life miserable for the people.” “Our campaign wants Governor Akeredolu to note that the Ondo people cannot be cowed by his enmity towards them. Ondo state belongs to the people and Governor Akeredolu cannot intimidate anybody to submission.” The PDP counsels Governor Akeredolu to look around and see that he is now standing alone. He should realize that no serious Ondo leader is still with him and quietly accept the fact of his rejection by the people ahead of the October 10, 2020 election. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:  Vanguard News Dayo Johnson - Akure The opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and the All Progressive Congress, APC, have disagreed over Governor Rotimi Akeredolu's attack on his River State counterpart, Nyesom Wike for alleging that the APC was mounting pressure on the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to rig the October election… September 26, 2020 In "Ondo election" By Dayo Johnson, Akure The supremacy battle between the two major political parties has shifted to Ondo State after last weekend governorship election in Edo State which Governor Godwin Obaseki of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) won. Obaseki secured reelection by beating Pastor Osagie Ize Iyamu of the All Progressives… September 27, 2020 In "News" Riots erupted across many parts of Ondo state yesterday as protesters trooped to the streets to protest the substitution of the name of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP, governorship candidate, Mr Eyitayo Jegede SAN by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) with that of Barrister Jimoh Ibrahim for next month’s… October 29, 2016 In "News"