In the aftermath of the #EndSARS protests that rocked the country, billionaire businessman, Femi Otedola, has said everyone must play a part to make Nigeria great. Reacting to the events via his verified Instagram handle, he recalled how he took part in the ‘Ali-must-go’ protest of 1978, noting that he understands the youths’ determination to make the country better. Otedola wrote: “The horrors that have been unfolding in our country have left me filled with sadness. “I deeply commiserate with those who have lost their loved ones and, as a father, I share the sentiment of my three daughters who protested in Lagos and London. “As a young boy of 16, I participated in the ‘Ali Must Go Protest’ of 1978, so I understand the determination of our youths who rightly want our country to be better. “We must all do our part to make Nigeria great! “I will continue to do my own quota in providing for those who are most in need of support in our country in these tough times.”   The horrors that have been unfolding in our country have left me filled with sadness. I deeply commiserate with those who have lost their loved ones and as a father, I share the sentiment of my three daughters who protested in Lagos and London. As a young boy of 16, I participated in the ‘Ali Must Go Protest’ of 1978, so I understand the determination of our youths who rightly want our country to be better. We must all do our part to make Nigeria great! I will continue to do my own quota in providing for those who are most in need of support in our country in these tough times .…F.Ote A post shared by  Femi Ote (@femiotedola) on Oct 25, 2020 at 6:18am PDT  VANGUARD SINCE it was conceived by veteran broadcaster and culture activist, Mr. Cally Ikpe, and its adoption by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi, the Violence-Free World, VFW, project has remained a viable vehicle. April 2, 2017 In "The Gallery" Oil magnate Femi Otedola, yesterday, appeared before the House of Representatives Committee on Ethics investigating the $3 million cash for clearance scandal but refused to speak in protest against the committee’s decision to hear him in secret. July 4, 2012 In "Headlines" ...Ask, FG to stop Army's planned Operation Crocodile Smile …Kill protesters, face International Criminal Court, ASCAB cautions Buratai …Says it’s ill-timed, could exacerbate citizens’ distrust, lack of confidence in state institutions …‘Crocodile Smile’ not going after #EndSARS protesters, says Army …Defence Minister warns protesters against undermining national security …Thugs attacked… October 19, 2020 In "SARS Update"