Kano State Government has said it will expend the sum of N107 million to sponsor not fewer than 50 students to study in Niger Republic under it exchange programme. The State’s Commissioner of Education, Muhammad Sanusi Kiru made this known during the distribution of instructional materials to primary and Junior Secondary schools in the state. Kiru said the pupils were selected based on merit from the 44 LGAs across the state to study in Kano/Niamey Bilingual College in Niger Republic. According to him, “the ministry have completed screening of the students. The government is to spend N107 million. The children were selected from the local government areas on merit,” Kiru said. Speaking during the flag-off of the distribution, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje reiterated the government’s commitment to ensure education for all school aged children in the state. He further said it has awarded a contract of N3billion for renovation and construction of classrooms across the 44 LGAs. Ganduje said plans are also underway to visit to inspect works on the sites saying an award would be given to the best five LGA who executed the projects diligently and transparently. The Governor said the distribution of the instructional materials was to compliment it free and compulsory education policy in place in the state. Earlier, the Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board, SUBEB, Danlami Hayyo reiterated commitment to quality education. Meanwhile, items distributed included 34 motorcycles, one 18 seater bus, text books, computers, sport kits among others. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Abdulmumin Murtala - Kano Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, and the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) have on Sunday offered cash donations and food items to 1000 Islamic teachers drawn from 1000 Tsangaya (Almajiri) schools across the state as part of efforts to ensure that Kano records zero… November 4, 2019 In "Education" By Bashir Bello - Kano The Kano State Commissioner for Education, Muhammad Sunusi Kiru, on Tuesday says the state government has earmarked the sum of N4.66 billion for feeding programme of its boarding school students in the state's secondary schools. Kiru who disclosed this while speaking with newsmen in the… September 15, 2020 In "News" Kano State Government says it has concluded arrangements to establish additional 130 Girls Secondary Schools in the state. Sanusi Kiru, the state’s Commissioner of Education, made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Sunday in Kano. Sanusi said the schools would be established in… August 31, 2020 In "Education"