The Supervising Deputy Inspector General of Police, DIG, South- East Geopolitical Zone, DIG Celestine Okoye, Wednesday said the Nigeria Police was still counting the number of Policemen killed in the South-East region following the #EndSARS protests. The DIG who is also in-charge  of  Information Communication Technology at  Force Headquarters, Abuja, expressed sadness over the killing of Police officers and called on the perpetrators to desist  from such dastardly  act for peace to reign. Okoye condemned in strong terms, the destruction of Police stations in the state, adding that such federal projects  should be regarded as a valuable  assets  put in place  for the benefit of all  and sundry. The DIG stated this after having an interaction with Governor David Umahi at the new Government House, Abakaliki. According to him, ” I am here  for peace. I came to Ebonyi to find out the way to end the destruction in Ebonyi. My advice is for the hoodlums to stop the destruction in Ebonyi State. Destroying these properties is not destroying government properties but our own properties. “Most Police stations were built by communities. Instead of us to be grateful for these police  stations, we  are destroying them. ‘In the South-East, most  federal government projects are not built in your villages and the ones built  are being destroyed. When I was joining the  police force, I was told that policemen are  slaves. You see how we are killed and nobody is discussing it. So, the police  has no right to live but to die. I’m not happy the way policemen are killed. “Investigation will tell us if those arrested in the South- East are  either IPOB members or whether they are miscreants or hoodlums. We are still counting the number of policemen killed. vanguardngr.com By Peter Okutu - Abakaliki The Supervising Deputy Inspector General of Police, DIG South East Geopolitical Zone, DIG Celestine Okoye, Wednesday said the Nigerian Police was still collating the number of policemen killed in the South East region, following the #EndSARS protests. The DIG who is also in-charge of Information… October 28, 2020 In "News" By Vincent Ujumadu - Awka The Anambra State Police Command on Wednesday took stock of its losses during the #endSARS protest in the state, saying four of it officers were killed, eleven police stations and over twenty vehicles including patrol and exhibit vehicles and an Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC), were… October 28, 2020 In "News" The African Union (AU) has expressed concern over growing threat to peace and security in Africa posed by terrorism, radicalisation, violent extremism, as well as influx of foreign terrorist fighters into the continent. According to a statement, on Wednesday the AU Peace and Security Council, in its latest meeting, had… October 29, 2020 In "News"