President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday cautioned Nigerians to do all they can to help avoid a second wave of the COVID-19 virus in Nigeria President Buhari took to Twitter on his official handle, @MBuhari saying: “Looking at the trends in the other countries, we must do all we can to avert a second wave of Covid-19 in Nigeria. We must make sure that our cases, which have gone down, do not rise again. Our economy is too fragile to bear another round of lockdown”. Looking at the trends in the other countries, we must do all we can to avert a second wave of Covid-19 in Nigeria. We must make sure that our cases, which have gone down, do not rise again. Our economy is too fragile to bear another round of lockdown. — Muhammadu Buhari (@MBuhari) October 29, 2020  The virus outbreak which was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organisation has infected 62,224 Nigerians, with a reported 1,135 deaths. Although a remarkable 57,916 Nigerians have so far recovered from COVID-19. Europe has seen a recent resurgence in the spread of the virus, after initially recording a drop in cases. With France announcing a new national lockdown, and Germany shutting down bars and restaurants after hospitals recorded a sharp spike in patient admission. With the US also reporting 80,000 new cases on Wednesday, there are fears that a second wave of the deadly virus could be close. Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru   ABUJA--PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has urged all citizens to use the occasion of Eid-el-Maulud to reflect on the virtues of the Holy Prophet by showing love and understanding for fellow citizens while exhibiting patience, honesty, sincerity, kindness and generosity in all their undertakings   President Buhari stated… October 28, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari promised yesterday to bring to justice erring police officers and those involved in looting and destroying public and private properties in the wake of the #EndSARS protests, urging all citizens to use the occasion of Eid-el-Maulud to reflect on the virtues of the Holy Prophet by showing… October 29, 2020 In "News" …As Lawan, Ugwuanyi, Abiodun, Makinde,  Oba of Benin, APC, PDP felicitate with Nigerians By Anayo Okoli, Gabriel Enolgholase,  Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Omeiza Ajayi, Dirisu Yakubu, Luminous Jannamike & James Ogunnaike President Muhammadu Buhari promised yesterday to bring to justice erring police officers and those involved in looting and destroying public and… October 29, 2020 In "News"