EndSARS protesters in Benin on Tuesday apprehended some suspected hoodlums who broke into shops under the guise of the peaceful protest by its members. The protesters at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) and University of Benin (UNIBEN) Ugbowo campus main gate nabbed four suspected hoodlums. The hoodlums broke into shops between UNIBEN and UBTH and were about to cart away goods worth thousands of naira when they were caught. The EndSARS protesters, who apprehended the suspected hoodlums took the four-man gang to Ugbowo Police Station for proper investigation but were rejected by the police officers on duty. The police officers advised the EndSARS protesters to take the suspects along with them and the stolen items recovered to the state police headquarters because they were working on instruction not to arrest any suspects. A police officer, who pleaded anonymous said that the reason for their action was not unconnected with the burning down of two police stations by hoodlums during the EndSARS protest in the state on Monday by suspected hoodlums. He said some hoodlums during the protest had earlier stormed the police division demanding to know if any suspect was in detention in their cell and threatened to set the station ablaze. …Hoodlums burn down 50 cars in Apo, Abuja …Benin prisons attacked, scores of inmates freed, police stations attacked, arms carted away  Edo govt imposes 24 hours curfew, attacks spread to Auchi, protesters block Sapele end of Warri-Benin highway …Protester stabbed Saturday dies in Abuja, 12-yr old dies in Delta …It’s… October 20, 2020 In "SARS Update" …Protesters now ask for good governance …Candlelight procession for victims …To watch premiership matches on screen at Lekki today …Plan Sunday service at same venue tomorrow Four protesters died yesterday and scores of others were critically injured as protests by Nigerian youths against police brutality, tagged #EndSARS, entered day nine… October 17, 2020 In "SARS Update" By Luminous Jannamike The auto dealer whose car mart was burnt down in the Apo district of Abuja, Mr. Obiora Eze, has said he miraculously escaped the clutches of the hoodlums with only one car. The inferno, which occurred around 3;30pm on Monday, left 13 of his cars burnt beyond… October 20, 2020 In "News"