The Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu has set up a new Police outfit to take over from the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigerian Police Force. It is known as Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) Team and will fill the gaps arising from the dissolution of the defunct SARS. Also, the IGP on Tuesday, 13th October, 2020, in accordance with Section 18 (10) of the Police Act 2020, ordered all personnel of the defunct SARS to report at the Force Headquarters, Abuja for debriefing, psychological and medical examination. A statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba said, “The officers are expected to undergo this process as a prelude to further training and reorientation before being redeployed into mainstream policing duties”. Mba said, “The medical examination will be carried out by the newly set-up Police Counselling and Support Unit (PCSU), a Unit, which henceforth shall engage in psychological management, re-orientation and training of officers of the Force deployed for tactical operations and other duties. “The Unit, which is domiciled with the Force Medical Department and coordinated by the Force Medical Officer, has its membership drawn from amongst psychiatrists, psychologists, medics, pastors and imams, Public Relations practitioners, Civil Society and other Human Rights groups with relevant qualifications and expertise”. Furthermore the statement said, “Meanwhile, the IGP has set up a new Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) Team that will fill the gaps arising from the dissolution of the defunct SARS. “Prospective members of this new team will also undergo psychological and medical examination to ascertain their fitness and eligibility for the new assignment. “They are to commence training at the different Police tactical training institutions nationwide, next week. “Personnel from the Police Commands in the South-East and the South-South will be trained at the Counter-Terrorism College, Nonwa-Tai, Rivers State. “Those from the Police Commands from the North and the South-West will be trained at the Police Mobile Force Training College, Ende, Nasarawa State and the Police Mobile Force Training College, Ila-Orangun, Osun State, respectively. “While reaffirming his irrevocable commitment towards the successful and holistic implementation of the Police reforms, the IGP enjoins members of the public, particularly protesting citizens to exercise restraint and allow measures being put in place to come to fruition and engender a Police Force that would meet the yearnings and aspirations of the citizenry.” vanguardngr.com By Nwafor Sunday Inspector General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu, Tuesday ordered all the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, personnel to report to the Force Headquarters, Abuja for debriefing, psychological and medical examination. The officers are expected to undergo this process as a prelude to further training and reorientation before being… October 13, 2020 In "News" CP X Squad, Force Provost Marshal, IGP Monitoring Team deployed to enforce order By Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja Against the backdrop of skepticism over the order last Sunday of the ban of SARS carrying out routine Police duties, the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu has further cemented his directives by… October 7, 2020 In "News" CP X Squad, Force Provost Marshal, IGP Monitoring Team deployed to enforce order By Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja Against the backdrop of skepticism over the order last Sunday of the ban of SARS carrying out routine Police duties, the inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu has further cemented his directives by… October 7, 2020 In "News"