The Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the restriction of vehicular movement from 11:59 pm on Friday, 9th October 2020 to 6 pm on Saturday, 10th October 2020 in Ondo State. The order according to the IGP was part of efforts by the Force to ensure effective coordination of public order and safety during the gubernatorial election. scheduled for Saturday, October 10. The press statement signed by Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, noted the vehicular restriction order, among other things, is aimed at preventing political actors and trouble-makers from freely engaging in unpatriotic acts – circulation and use of illicit arms and hard drugs, movement of political thugs from contiguous States to Ondo State and disruption of the electoral processes, etc – which are inimical to the dictates of the electoral laws. The IGP calls on residents of the Sunshine State to go out in their numbers on the day of the election and exercise their franchise. He assures that adequate security arrangement has been emplaced to secure the public space for the election. Adamu also enjoins the citizens to bear any inconveniences arising from the restriction order, noting that the order is part of necessary sacrifices we all have to endure to nurture and sustain democracy in the country. He, however, warns that anybody who engages in snatching of ballot boxes, vote-buying, vote-selling, hate speeches, and any other act capable of compromising the integrity of the electoral process will be brought to book. Vanguard News Nigeria. ...As IGP warns politicians to play by the rules, be of good conduct By Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja The Police have uncovered movement of arms and thugs by politicians in Edo and Ondo states where governorship elections are scheduled to hold on September 19 and October  10, 2020, respectively. The… August 31, 2020 In "News" By Kingsley Omonobi The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu has warned politicians and their supporters in Edo and Ondo States, where gubernatorial elections are scheduled to hold on 19th September 2020 and 10th October 2020 respectively, to conduct themselves properly, play by the rules and steer-clear of tendencies capable… August 30, 2020 In "News" By Kingsley Omonobi, Abuja The Police have uncovered movement of arms and thugs by politicians in Edo and Ondo states where governorship elections are scheduled to hold on September 19 and October 10, 2020, respectively. The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, who revealed this weekend, warned the politicians… September 1, 2020 In "News"