The global peer-to-peer crypto marketplace, Paxful, has entered into partnership with BuyCoins as part of its localization efforts to add Naira token (NGNT), a naira pegged stable coin as a payment method to the platform. With this partnership, users will be able to buy and sell Bitcoin (BTC) and Tether (USDT) using NGNT. Paxful is a people-powered marketplace for money transfers with anyone, anywhere, at any time with a mission to empower the forgotten four billion unbanked and under-banked around the world to have control of their money using peer-to-peer transactions. BuyCoins is a crypto currency exchange for Africans that create products and platforms that empower Africans to access and use crypto currency easily. In a statement, Chief Executive/Co-founder, BuyCoins, Mr. Timi Ajiboye, said that the collaboration with Paxful is an exciting step for the NGNT community. He stated: “Built on the world’s leading smart contract platform, the Ethereum blockchain, whose open-source and transparent stablecoin framework allows fiat to interact with smart contracts, gives cryptocurrency dealers the ability to transact with the Naira across the blockchain. NGNT is backed by Naira 1-to-1 meaning that one NGNT can always be redeemed for one Naira, giving the much-needed stability in contrast to usually volatile digital currencies.” Also, Chief Executive/co-founder, Paxful, Mr. Ray Youssef, said that the addition of naira token on Paxful will facilitate easy and speedy cross-border transactions while increasing the scope of trading on the platform. “With the Naira Token users can perform fast, publicly-verifiable, borderless transactions with a fiat equivalent, which is important to our users,” he said. By Providence Emmanuel The global peer-to-peer crypto marketplace, Paxful has entered into partnership with BuyCoins as part of its localization efforts to add Naira token (NGNT), a naira pegged stablecoin as a payment method to the platform. With this partnership, users will be able to buy and sell Bitcoin (BTC)… October 7, 2020 In "News" As a global digital marketplace that connects buyers and sellers of bitcoin, Paxful has, in its relatively short period of existence, already carved for itself an enviable niche. Operating as a type of escrow service, they keep both parties safe and ensure the integrity of their transactions using blockchain technology.… September 17, 2019 In "News" Globally respected leading peer-to-peer bitcoin marketplace, Paxful, is making inroads into Africa with its trusted platform for bitcoin trading which has achieved widespread acceptance in other parts of the world. September 5, 2019 In "Business"