The Managing Director of Toyota Nigeria Limited, TNL, Mr. Kunle Ade Ojo, has hinted that the company will be introducing a new entry vehicle at a friendly price before the end of the year. The Managing Director, who spoke at the presentation of awards to winners of 2019 Toyota Awards at their corporate headquarters in Lekki, Lagos, said that the company shall continue to serve the best interest of its teeming customers in the country. Assuring the customers of the company’s commitment to continue to meet their expectations at every touchpoint, the Managing Director disclosed that apart from the introduction of a new entry-level vehicle, the company will also stage a fleet conference that will serve the best interest of the customers. In his remark, the Chairman of Toyota Nigeria Limited, Chief Michael Ade Ojo, commended the customers for making the Toyota brand their preferred choice. “The superior quality Toyota brand is built on a strong foundation of the ‘can-do spirit’, hence we will not allow anything to hinder us from appreciating our teeming corporate and individual customers who have been loyal to us through the years,” he said. Also commending their dealers for rendering quality service delivery to their customers, Chief Ade Ojo said that Toyota Nigeria shall continue to seek new ways to reach out to their numerous customers to fulfil their mandate to keep them happy and satisfied. “This gesture, I must emphasise, is hinged on  our philosophy of rewarding loyalty no matter the circumstance. “We will push beyond new horizons to achieve the set goals,” he said. Winners at the 2019 Toyota Awards include the Department of Petroleum  Resources, DPR, which won the Evergreen Customer of the Year Award  for its commitment to and consistent patronage of Toyota products and services over the years. The Nigeria Customs Service came first in the Customer of The Year category, while First Bank Nigeria Plc was the first runner-up and Guaranty Trust Bank was the second runner-up in this category. Similarly, rewarded at the ceremony were automobile journalists that proved their mettle and professionalism in their objective reporting of activities/events in the automobile industry and TNL activities. Rasheed Bisiriyu of The Punch, Theodore Opara of Vanguard and Mike Ochonma of Business Day Newspapers emerged winners in this category. Toyota (Nigeria) Limited remains the sole distributor of Toyota products for Toyota Motor Corporation (TMC) Japan in Nigeria. The company is well-positioned pan-Nigeria to provide industry-best after-sales service in the areas of genuine parts, vehicles servicing/repairs and sales of Toyota vehicles approved for Nigerian roads/environment by TMC Japan. VANGUARD TOYOTA Nigeria Ltd, (TNL) has elevated its Executive Director, Mr. Kunle Ade Ojo to the position of Managing Director. May 20, 2014 In "Motoring" IN a bid to reward its customers and stakeholders for their support to the growth of the brand, Toyota Nigeria Limited showered customers with cast, brand new car and other valuable gifts April 19, 2019 In "Motoring" Vanguard Motoring has been adjudged the best motoring page at a recent award by Toyota Nigeria Limited. Consequently, Vanguard Motoring Editor, Mr. Theodore Opara, went home with the Motoring Journalists award for 2015 and a star prize Samsung Galaxy S6 phone. Announcing the award at a well attended Toyota Nigeria… May 26, 2015 In "News"