After one week of silence from the Nigerian Army on the alleged shooting of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki toll gate, Lagos, it has declared the allegation as unfounded, describing it as the handiwork of mischief makers. Recall that the protest took a violent twist after the alleged Lekki massacre, as hoodlums  hijacked the  opportunity to attack police formations, killing six policemen and destroyed over 40 police formations, including government and civilians properties. However , the 81 Division of the Nigerian Army, Victoria Island, Lagos  where the soldiers were deployed from, exonerated its men from killing any protester. In a statement signed the Acting Deputy Director, 81 Division Army Public Relations , Major Osoba Olaniyi, the division, clarified  that the intervention of the soldiers was on the request of the Lagos State Government. The statement read: “The attention of headquarters 81 Division of the Nigerian Army has been drawn to a viral video on social media in which it was alleged that civilians protesters were massacred by soldiers at the Lekki Toll plaza. “This allegation is untrue, unfounded and aimed at causing anarchy in the country. ”At no time did soldiers of the Nigerian Army open fire on any civilian. “From the onset of the  EndSARS protest, there was no time personnel of 81 Division Nigerian Army, Lagos was involved. “However , the decision to call in the Military was taken by the Lagos State Government after a 24-hour curfew was imposed. “This was as  a result of the violence which led to several police stations being burnt, policemen killed, suspects in police custody released and weapons carted away. ”The situation was fast degenerating into anarchy. It was at this point that Lagos State Government requested for the Military to intervene, in order to restore normalcy . “The intervention of the Military followed all laid down procedures for internal security operations. And all the soldiers involved acted within the confines of the Rules of Engagement , ROE for internal  security operations. “Finally, headquarters 81 Division Nigerian Army reiterates that  the Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional responsibilities did not shoot at any civilian as there are glaring and convincing evidence to attest to this fact. “This allegation is the handwork of mischief  makers who will stop at nothing to tarnish the image of the Nigerian Army. ”The general public is hereby enjoined to discountenance this allegation , as there is no iota of truth therein”. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Nigerian Army finally broke its silence on the Lekki Tollgate shootings in Lagos, exonerating its men from shooting at the  #EndSARS protesters last Tuesday. Rather,  it described the allegation of killing of protesters by soldiers as unfounded, attributing it to the handiwork of mischief-makers. October 27, 2020 In "News" …Tension, bonfires, attempted arson rock Abakaliki, as Umahi declares curfew in Ebonyi …Security operatives gun down three persons in Rivers …Police stations burnt in Imo l2 feared dead, as protest turns violent in Enugu …Policeman killed, another injured in Lagos Police stations’ attacks …Three banks, council set ablaze …Protesters raze… October 22, 2020 In "SARS Update" Background This statement is a summary of the zoom meeting organised by the Feminist Womanifesto under the #Nigerianwomenarise. Over 1400 women registered for the webinar with the aim of discussing the recent development in the country, particularly the killings of innocent unarmed youths’ protesters by law enforcement agents across the… October 23, 2020 In "News"