China on Wednesday told Sweden to reverse a ban on Chinese tech firms from its 5G network, warning of “negative impacts” if it did not. The Swedish telecoms regulator issued a ban on Tuesday that would require carriers to remove existing Huawei and ZTE equipment by 2025, citing national security concerns. Chinese telecoms companies have faced bans and heightened scrutiny in recent months over fears Beijing could use their overseas deals to spy on foreign citizens. That has provoked a furious response from Beijing, which denies the allegations and says trumped-up security concerns are being used against its successful tech firms to hem them in for commercial reasons. China’s foreign ministry said it was “strongly dissatisfied” with Sweden’s decision, accusing the Swedish government of “blatantly suppressing Chinese telecom companies and politicising normal economic cooperation.” Foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian urged Sweden to “correct its wrong decision” to avoid a “negative impact on China-Sweden economic and trade cooperation, and on the operations of Swedish companies in China.” Sweden’s decision comes amid pressure from the United States on allies to cut Huawei from their internet infrastructure. Britain banned mobile providers from using Huawei equipment in new 5G networks in July, while France has placed heavy restrictions on use of equipment from Huawei. The ban has raised fears that China could retaliate against Swedish telecoms equipment maker Ericsson, which has 5G contracts with all three major Chinese telecoms operators. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Sweden has banned Chinese telecoms groups Huawei and ZTE from its 5G network for security reasons, the Swedish telecoms regulator said on Tuesday. The ban is in line with new legislation that entered into force in January 2020, following an examination by the Swedish armed forces and security service "to… October 20, 2020 In "Foreign" US internet giant Google, whose Android mobile operating system powers most of the world's smartphones, said it was beginning to cut ties with China's Huawei, which Washington considers a national security threat. Why we suspended licensing of 26GHz, 38GHz, 42GHz frequency bands —NCC(Opens in a new browser tab) The move… May 20, 2019 In "News" Top US officials fired a fresh broadside at Huawei on Saturday, warning the Chinese tech giant posed a threat to NATO if allies allowed it to build new 5G communications networks. Washington has been pressing European allies hard to ban Huawei, one of the world's largest tech firms, from next-generation… February 15, 2020 In "Foreign"