Chief Whip of the Senate, Sen. Orji Kalu has commended the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu for respecting the wishes of Nigerians on the recent call to dissolve the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). In a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) by Orji Kalu Media Office on Sunday in Abuja, the former governor of Abia said that the disbandment of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad was in the right direction. Adamu said that the operatives would be redeployed to other police formations and commands. The announcement came after days of protests against brutality and extra-judicial killings by SARS operatives nationwide. “The Inspector-General of Police’s action has shown his concern for Nigerians especially the youths who have been accused, oppressed and subjected to all forms of abuse and brutality by some reckless members of the SARS,” he said. Kalu said he had in the past written privately to the I-G for a total reform of the SARS, adding that what Nigeria needs is a trusted police force which is guided by the respect and protection of the rights of Nigerian citizens. According to him “Police must ensure that their actions are in accordance with the fundamental principles for the development of a just society. “When people live in fear, they will be skeptical of what is coming next in their lives and that is not right. “Some of the SARS act with impunity. “Many Nigerians have complained about how tensed they feel in checkpoints even when they have their required papers,” Kalu said. NAN Vanguard News Nigeria Chief Whip of the Senate and former Governor of Abia State, Senator Orji  Kalu,  has said what Nigeria needs to fight crime is a reliable police force and not  an outfit like Special Anti Robbery Squad,  SARS. October 11, 2020 In "News" Kicks against scrapping of anti-robbery squad By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja A pro-democracy group, the Citizens Action for Good Governance has petitioned the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, asking for reform of all units in the Nigeria Police, and kicking against the outright sack of the Special Anti-Robbery… October 9, 2020 In "News" …lAs Senate probes human rights abuses by operatives, others …Urges IGP to arrest, prosecute security personnel involved in extra-judicial killings …Reps unveil 30-day plan to tackle police brutality …Probe alleged criminal activities of Police unit …To work with NBA, CSOs, others to draft new legislation to curtail SARS excesses …Impose… October 8, 2020 In "News"