Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has expressed optimism following the damages visited on the state by arsonists and looters, who took advantage of the EndSARS protests to wreak havoc on public and private property. Sanwo-Olu expressed his belief in the ability of the state to “come out stronger” after some governors and ministers paid him a solidarity visit. He also took the guests round some of the burnt and/or vandalised property. Writing via his Twitter handle, Governor Sanwo-Olu said: “I received governors and ministers from the South-West on a solidarity visit to Lagos over the recent incidents in our state. “I thank them for taking time out to commiserate with us as we look to rebuild our lives and city. “We recognise this moment as a temporary set-back and we are confident that Lagos will come out stronger. “On behalf of the inextinguishable people of this great state, I appreciate my brother governors and honourable ministers for standing up for us at this time.” I received Governors and Ministers from the South West on a solidarity visit to Lagos over the recent incidents in our state. I thank them for taking time out to commiserate with us as we look to rebuild our lives and city. pic.twitter.com/FRni46NQdH — Babajide Sanwo-Olu (@jidesanwoolu) October 25, 2020  VANGUARD By Olasunkanmi Akoni Following extensive damage to various installations and government properties, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-olu on Friday led team to inspect the extent of damanges on various states properties Sanwo-Olu, accompanied by the state Commissioner of Police, CP, Hakeem Odumosu, visited the council Secretariat of Ajeromi-Ifelodun… October 23, 2020 In "News" ...Hands over to Sanwo-Olu for further investigation By Olasunkanmi Akoni The Minister for Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola on Sunday, discovered a hidden camera at the Lekki Toll Gate, Admiralty Circle, in Lagos. Fashola, led a Federal Government delegation on the directive of  President Muhammadu Buhari to commiserate with the… October 25, 2020 In "SARS Update" Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Thursday said he called President Muhammadu Buhari, to inform him of the killings of #ENDSARS protesters at Lekki Toll Gate, by the Nigerian Army on Tuesday, but was told he was not available. “I made calls to the President twice yesterday but was told he… October 22, 2020 In "News"