A granite-laden truck that reportedly crashed into a Mazda bus on Friday on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway in an accident has left three people dead, with one injured. Youths in the area also prevented law enforcement agents from towing the accidented truck away, insisting it must be set ablaze. The incident occurred at about 8.45p,m. at Lotto, Ogun State axis, inbound Lagos. According to eyewitnesses, the Iveco truck with number plates AAB 458 ZY, was travelling on a slow lane, while the white-coloured Mazda with number plates XY 660 EKY, was on the fast lane, when suddenly the truck lost control and crushed the bus from the rear. Immediately, the bus was said to have fallen sideways while the truck skidded, discharging its contents on the bus, which led to the death of three of the bus’ occupants— all males— while another was rescued and taken to a hospital. It was gathered that men of Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, TRACE, and other responders who were at the scene have deposited the bodies at Idera Hospital morgue in Sagamu. Meanwhile, a mob action was prevented when some youths prevented the truck from being towed away, insisting it must be set ablaze. Law enforcement agents were said to have calmed frayed nerves. The accidented vehicles were in the custody of the Divisional Police Officer. TRACE Public Relations Officer, Babatunde Akinbiyi, has since commiserated with the affected families and urged truck drivers to carry out proper maintenance on their vehicles and avoid overloading of same. VANGUARD Youths attempt setting accidented truck ablaze By Bose Adelaja A granite-laden truck which reportedly crashed into a Mazda bus Friday, on Lagos/Ibadan Expressway has left three people dead while another was seriously injured. Youths in the area also prevented law enforcement agents from towing the accidented truck insisting it must… October 30, 2020 In "Metro" ABEOKUTA—An accident involving a white Mazda bus and a Mack truck at Ibara village, along Abeokuta /Sagamu Expressway in Ogun State, yesterday, reportedly claimed the lives of ten people, including a toddler July 7, 2017 In "News" LAGOS—Seven persons were feared dead with several others injured after a truck loaded with 33,000 litres of petroleum product exploded at Ibafo, along the Lagos-Ibadan Express way, Tuesday night. There were different accounts on how the explosion occurred. A version said a tanker, belonging to Total Oil Nigeria Limited, collided… June 23, 2016 In "News"