The winner of the 5th edition of the BBNaija reality TV  show, Olamilekan Agbeleshebioba, popularly called Laycon who was recently appointed the Youth Ambassador of Ogun state by the Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has hit the ground running as he stormed the office of  the state Commissioner of Police, CP Edward Ajogun on Thursday  to strengthen the relationship between the Force and the youth constituency in the state. While speaking during the visit, Laycon  expressed concern over the issues of Police brutality in the country, pleading with the  Policemen not to make themselves too fearful for the citizens to approach in times of need. In his words, “The popular ‘Police is your Friend’ mantra is different from what many citizens experience in the hands of Police officers. ” “I usually get scared whenever I see policemen as a result of the unjust treatment I have experienced in the past . It  baffles me why I would be scared of those that are meant to protect me. ” “People should have confidence in the Police Force and not fear at the sight of them without wrongdoing.” Fear for men of the Nigeria Police Force is majorly from the brutality many have suffered over the years with little or no consequences. But now, as the Youth Ambassador in Ogun State, I hope to see this become a thing of the past while I give my support to the Force in whatever way it is requires”. Responding, the Commissioner of Police assured the youth ambassador  that the Police Force does not condone acts of brutality by its officers, adding that the Force had a special unit that investigates cases of Police brutality and takes necessary actions against officers found guilty. Vanguard As the 2020 BBNAIJA knockdown gradually draws to a close, youths in Ogun State, on Thursday, staged a walk around Abeokuta, the state capital to drum support for one of the housemate, Olamilekan Agbeleshe, popularly known as Laycon. September 24, 2020 In "Entertainment" Describes him as face of positive revolution in African entertainment James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has congratulated the winner of the 2020 BBNaija lockdown show,  Mr.  Olamilekan Agbelesebioba,  popularly known as Laycon. The Governor who took to his social media handles to express his delight… September 28, 2020 In "Entertainment" Big Brother Naija finalist, Nengi has given reasons Laycon might emerge winner of the ‘lockdown edition Sunday. Nengi during her diary session told Biggie that Laycon is a great guy and is intelligent. According to her, most DJs who visit the house always hail him. She said, “ I feel… September 25, 2020 In "Entertainment"