Inspector-General of Police cried out of frustration over the problems of the Nigeria Police Force, while another threw his phone at the wall out of anger at the constant interference by politicians. These were some revelations by retired Commissioner of Police, Emmanuel Ojukwu, who served as the police imagemaker at the Force headquarters, Abuja, under five Inspectors-General of Police. Speaking during an interview with Vanguard, published HERE, he said serving as Force PRO under five IGP gave him an insight into the problems bedeviling the Police. According to Emmanuel Ojukwu, the issues with the Force makes it “kill its best”. Ojukwu said: “I have seen an Inspector-General of Police weep over the problems of Nigerian police. I have seen another Inspector-General of Police display temper, anger by throwing away his phone over persistent calls and disturbance from the National Assembly. “When the head is frustrated, the system is frustrated. “We have issues of inequity, injustice, imbalance and lots of frustrations. I was the best in my set out of about 117. “But I didn’t get to be commissioner of police until I was about to retire. But, before I got to there, some of my course mates had become commissioners of police. Now, that to me is inequity, because it is not justified. “Nigerian factor came to play, and it will be foolhardy for people to expect to be happy in such a situation. “Also, I am retired now and my pension is N73,000 monthly, having put in 33 years in service; having turned 60 years of age, and I joined the police as a graduate. “I have a family to maintain. It is very frustrating, and so even the younger police officers are not finding it quite well. So, the police kill its best.” VANGUARD A good number of people were killed, they unleashed violence on people, and things got to a head. And the young men who where the bulk of their victims rose and asked for accountability. October 31, 2020 In "Interview" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, met with security chiefs on the security situation in the country and ordered  them to redouble their efforts to secure the lives of Nigerians May 10, 2019 In "Headlines" Acting Inspector Inspector of Police, Mohammed Abubakar Adamu has approved the retirement of all the Deputy Inspectors General of Police after getting the all clear from the Police Council headed by President Muhammadu Buhari. January 27, 2019 In "News"