“Ajayi, Jegede should surrender honourably or be defeated democratically”, Yahaya Bello, APC Governors, others “I am proud of my achievements” – Akeredolu President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday made his position known on the October 10th Governorship Election in Ondo State. According to the President, Oluwarotimi Akeredoluthe incumbent Governor of the state and the flagbearer of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), has done well to deserve re- election . Speaking through his verified twitter handle, Buhari said Akeredolu is a good brand and he is proud of his feats thus far and is happy to identify with the Governor. “Governor Akeredolu deserves to be re-elected to consolidate the good work he commenced in his first term. I am not just proud of his achievements; I am confident he will enjoy the mandate of the good people of Ondo State for the second term. “I have no doubt that Governor @RotimiAkeredolu is a good brand for the APC to market. I am particularly delighted by his ingenious approach to governance. His performance within the limits of available resources is endearing”, the President, said. In a related development, Governors elected on the platform of the APC have advised the candidates of the leading opposition parties in the State, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Eyitayo Jegede and Hon. Agboola Ajayi respectively to honourably accept defeat and bow out of the race or face defeat through the votes of the people. To APC Governors, Akeredolu is the man to beat and his achievements thus far are too massive to earn him reelection. Speaking at the grandfinale of the APC Governorship Campaign rally held at the Ondo State Sports Complex, Akure, Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State said Akeredolu will not just win, but will emerge victorious in the base of the leading opposition parties. “By the grace of God, I declare a grand victory for Governor Akeredolu comes Saturday. All Kogi Indigenes in Ondo State are voting for Akeredolu. So, I call on the candidates of ZLP and PDP  to accept defeat honorably now or be crushed democratically on Saturday.” Corroborating his Kogi State counterpart, the Governor of Lagos State and the Chairman of APC National Campaign Council, Babajide Sanwoolu, said from all empirical analysis, the election is a walk-over for Akeredolu, assuring the people of the state of a better life if APC is returned elected. The chairman of Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF), Dr. Kayode Fayemi, said the entire APC Governors are behind the reelection bid of Akeredolu, stating that the mission of the opposition to take over the Sunshine state is an exercise in futility. In his response, Akeredolu said having moved around the entire local government areas for campaign, he is proud of his achievements. “I have moved around the state to talk to the people. I have spoken to the people on what I will do more if re-elected. Let me say very expressly that I am proud of what I have done in this first term. I never knew we have done that much. “I want to assure you of a much-developed Ondo State in my second term. I am telling you to expect a prosperous Ondo State. Ondo is the hidden wealth of Nigeria, and we are retooling the state towards the path of industrialisation. “I thank you all for your support. I thank you all for the opportunity given to me to serve the people of this state. I am proud of your support and I congratulate you in advance for what is coming to your door desk if you vote for me,” Akeredolu said. Measures in place for peaceful, transparent and credible poll in Ondo Dayo Johnson - Akure President Muhammadu Buhari has said that all necessary measures have been put in place to ensure that the Saturday governorship election in Ondo State is peaceful, transparent, and credible. He urged the electorate in Ondo… October 7, 2020 In "Ondo election" Says God ‘ll fight his battle Ready for direct primaries By Johnbosco Agbakwuru AHEAD of the October governorship elections in Ondo State, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, on Tuesday met with President Muhammadu Buhari, to seek the support and blessings of the President for his re-election. The governor also said that he… June 16, 2020 In "Politics" Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has said that he was confident that President Muhammadu Buhari would win the 2019 presidential election for a second term in the office. July 30, 2018 In "News"