The Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC and Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria, ASHON, are now collaborating to address the issue of accounts irregularities in the Nigerian capital market in their bid to enhance transparency and protect investors’ assets. ASHON disclosed that it is partnering with all the stakeholders including the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, Central Securities Clearing System Plc (CSCS) Registrars and shareholders to ensure that the irregular accounts are updated within the time frame set by SEC. The Chairman of ASHON, Patrick Ezeagu, urged the investors to liaise with their stockbrokers to provide necessary information that will enhance the conduct of their identity test. He stated that the outstanding accounts would have been resolved but for COVID-19 pandemic and its associated challenges. “The accounts which our members are currently trading on are Know Your Customers,  KYC- compliant. The issue is the old accounts. They must be updated. This is part of our due diligence as a global market. We would have resolved this but for COVID-19 pandemic that has obstructed many activities  globally. ”The situation  in the market is also a factor. The case was made worse by the lockdown, social distancing, and restriction  of movement. The good thing is that we are collaborating with all stakeholders. We urge all shareholders to update their records with stockbrokers without further delay. After this exercise, account of a shareholder that is not updated shall not be traded on” said Ezeagu. THE Chairman, Association of Stock broking Houses of Nigeria, ASHON, Chief Patrick Ezeagu has explained that the new registration of ASHON July 2, 2018 In "Business" THE Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) and the Association of Stockbroking Houses of Nigeria (ASHON) have thrown their weight behind the recent regulatory actions targeted at curbing unethical practices among operators in the market. February 7, 2017 In "Business" Trouble is brewing between the Dealing member firms of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, over the deployment of police team to the commission by the Director-General, Ms Arunma Oteh. September 25, 2012 In "Business"