President Muhammadu Buhari rejoices with Rotimi Akeredolu SAN, on his re-election as Governor of Ondo State for another four-year term. The President lauds the resounding victory of the Governor at the election held on Saturday, October 10, 2020, noting that the votes garnered “show that one good turn surely deserves another.” He thanks the people of Ondo State for keeping faith with their Governor, and the All Progressives Congress (APC), noting that “the people know the person and party that truly serves them, and have spoken in clear voice and unmistakable terms.” President Buhari appreciates the electorate in Ondo State for comporting themselves decently and in order, and for exhibiting conduct that indicates that the country is making progress in its electoral behavior. He also gives kudos to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for organizing credible, free and fair election, and to security agencies which ensured that orderliness was enthroned and maintained. The President urges Gov Akeredolu to be humble and magnanimous in victory, and serve the people of Ondo State even better than how he did in the first term, noting: “when you serve with heart and might, the people respond in like manner, and we can easily get to where we are headed as a country.” vanguardngr.com GOVERNOR Akeredolu of Ondo State has flagged off the door - to - door campaign for President Muhammadu Buhari's reelection saying it is time for the people to reciprocate the gesture of the President. January 16, 2019 In "News" Measures in place for peaceful, transparent and credible poll in Ondo Dayo Johnson - Akure President Muhammadu Buhari has said that all necessary measures have been put in place to ensure that the Saturday governorship election in Ondo State is peaceful, transparent, and credible. He urged the electorate in Ondo… October 7, 2020 In "Ondo election" GOVERNOR Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, yesterday, charged 16,000 members of the Federal Government N-power Volunteer Corps not to think about themselves alone but reciprocate the gesture of their engagement by re-electing President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019. December 5, 2018 In "News"