The Coalition of Northern Groups, CNG, has cautioned the Federal Government against going ahead with its planned military exercise,  Operation Crocodile Smile,  saying it could lead to choas at a time like this. It also described the operation scheduled to commence on October 20, 2020, as ill-timed and ill-advised. The group said this today  in a statement by its spokesperson,  Mr. Abdul-azeez Suleiman. According to CNG:”the move to deploy the military on Nigerians already taken over by peaceful #EndSARS and #EndInsecuriyNow protesters is ill-timed, ill-advised and a deliberate and costly attempt to provoke the setting in of chaos and further instability. “If government wants to hear the truth, it should be told that the Army boys would do better unleashing their crocodiles on the forests of Sambisa, Birnin Gwari and other spots spread all over northern Nigeria. It’s quite unthoughtful for the crocodiles or whatever reptiles to be used against peaceful everyday Nigerians who are merely exercising their their civic rights whereas bandits, kidnappers, rapists and insurgents roam about making life difficult for several communities particularly in the North. “Any attempt to further complicate the present situation by militàrizing the tiny civil space, would only make the already darkened clouds hanging over the country darker. We are quite sure the international community would by now be alert as to where responsibility would ultimately lie in the event of the deterioration of the situation. The truth is that Nigerians are angry, frustrated and are unlikely to condone further impunity from leaders who have clearly become a liability.” Vanguard ...Says it's ill-timed, could exacerbate citizens' distrust, lack of confidence in State institutions By Luminous Jannamike No fewer than 30 civil society organizations, on Sunday called on Federal Government to prevail on the Nigerian Army to suspend its planned 'Operation Crocodile Smile VI'. They made the call in view of… October 18, 2020 In "News" By Nwafor Sunday Following the report by the Nigerian army that it would launch ‘exercise Crocodile smile’, an operation that would assist in identifying terrorists in the country, former Aviation and of course PDP chieftain, Femi Fani-Kayode, Sunday warned the Federal government led by President Muhammadu Buhari to jettison the… October 18, 2020 In "Politics" By Ibrahim HassanWuyo The Nigerian Army has said that its planned Exercise Crocodile Smile VI, has nothing to do with the End SARS protests. Sagir Musa, a Colonel and Acting Director Army Public Relations, stated that the attention of the Nigerian Army (NA) has been drawn to some social media… October 18, 2020 In "News"