President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, said Nigerians acted within their rights to protest the killings and brutality against citizens by men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) across the country. Lawan made the statement at Tuesday’s plenary in his concluding remarks on a matter of personal explanation into the murder of Jimoh Isiaka by the Police, and attack on the Palace of Soun of Ogbomoso Land during the recent #EndSARS protest in some states across the country. The Senate President while commenting on the development which was sparked by SARS brutality against Nigerians, described previous conduct of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad as “unacceptable”. “SARS was funded by public funds and the entire essence of having the Nigeria Police Force is to ensure that there are law and order and that there is security for our people. “When SARS turned against the people, it was right for the people to protest peacefully,” Lawan said. The Senate President also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for promising to bring to justice all those involved in perpetrating various atrocities against Nigerians. He, therefore, prevailed on Nigerians to suspend the #EndSARS protest, particularly in view of the recent disbandment of the police unit by the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu. Lawan assured that those found culpable of Police brutality against Nigerians would be brought to face the weight of the law. “I think the protest has yielded the desired result so far, and there may not be a need to continue to have protests again when SARS has been disbanded. “Those culprits who were involved in the killing and maiming of Nigerians will be brought to book. “I think we should give the government the chance to implement those reforms as quickly as possible,” the Senate President appealed. Sen. Buhari Abdulfatai (APC-Oyo North), while coming under Order 43 of the Senate Standing Rules, noted with grief “the death of Jimoh Isiaka and several other promising youths. He said that their lives were “cut short at their prime during the recent #EndSARS protest, which started on Oct. 8.” According to the lawmaker, the right to peaceful assembly and free expression as a fundamental principle of any democracy is enshrined in Section 40 of the Nigeria Constitution 1999. He said the section guarantees the right of every Nigerian to peaceful protest. Abdulfatai decried the #EndSARS protest, which he said, resulted in a confrontation between the security operatives and the protesting youth in some parts of the country such as Ogbomoso in Oyo State, where violence was recorded. “For instance, the Nigeria Police were alleged to have injured seven (7) protesters and shot dead a young man known as Jimoh Isiaka, a Constituent of mine during the protest,” the lawmaker lamented. He added that as a reaction to the death of Jimoh Isiaka, the palace of the Paramount Ruler of the city, the Soun of Ogbomoso land, was attacked by the protesters who destroyed property and vehicles, with some palace officials sustaining injuries. Also, Sen. Richas Okorocha (APC-Imo West), kicked against the arrest and detention of #EndSARS protesters across the country by the Police. He stressed the need for those arrested during the protests to be released from detention unconditionally by the Police so as to calm frayed nerves. Okorocha called on the Federal Government to prosecute police officers who went out of the rules of engagement to harm Nigerians during the protests. Vanguard …Says it was good that the people rose against it, the Culprits must be brought to book …Observes a minute silence in honour of killed Jimoh  Isiaka at the Palace of Soun of Ogbomoso …As Senator Musa Hails the Youth for leading the Movement against SARS By Henry Umoru THE… October 13, 2020 In "News" …lAs Senate probes human rights abuses by operatives, others …Urges IGP to arrest, prosecute security personnel involved in extra-judicial killings …Reps unveil 30-day plan to tackle police brutality …Probe alleged criminal activities of Police unit …To work with NBA, CSOs, others to draft new legislation to curtail SARS excesses …Impose… October 8, 2020 In "News" THE Nigerian Police high command, has accused those it termed “mischievous” politicians of behind the #EndSARS campaign. December 6, 2017 In "News"