The Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, has exposed those behind ENDSARS protests in the country. Speaking in an interview with Channels TV (Sunrise Daily programme), Bello who defeated Senator Dino Melaye in November 18, 2019 Kogi state governorship election, emphatically stated that the nationwide #ENDSARS protests was politically motivated. He maintained that the protest was nothing but a play out of 2023 general elections by few individuals in the country. “This is 2023 playing out by few individuals who felt they can continue to use us in this country”, he said. Similarly, when asked to list the politically motivators, Bello opined, that they are “those who set them up, by Politicians who have hands in Endsars. “By those who continued to shift the goal post when the demands were met, those who continued to profiteer from it.” His words: “Dear Nigerians, let me tell you, what is happening today, this so-called #EndSARS is politically motivated. “Whether anybody says it or not, I am saying it once again and you can quote me anywhere, any day and I will prove it to you.  “Why will you demand for five for five items which was granted and you refused to take it. Which struggle, agitation or uprising across the world has ever succeeded without leadership?. “100 per cent, I agree (with the agitations of the protesters) but if you look at what is happening today, you will have no option than to classify it as politically motivated. “And let me tell you it is a ploy to set the youths of this country against one another. When asked to list those who are politically motivating the protesters, Bello opined: “By those who set them up. By Politicians who have hands in Endsars. “By those who continued to shift the goal post when the demands were met, those who continued to profiteer from it. “Not everybody believes in ending the SARS. And if you say SARS are even wrong in doing one thing or the other, the best way to agitate was to even ask for a total security overhaul. “This is 2023 playing out by few individuals who felt they can continue to use us in this country. I urge all youths to please return back home.” vanguardngr.com Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo has assured youths in the state of 60 per cent representation in his new cabinet as part of his administration’s efforts to redress their grievances. Obaseki gave the assurance on Thursday when he held an interactive meeting with youth groups at the Government House, Benin.… October 23, 2020 In "SARS Update" Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello has again called on Nigerian youths protesting against police brutality across the country to end the ongoing protests and enter a roundtable dialogue with the government in addressing their various demands. October 20, 2020 In "News" …Lagos, Ondo, Ekiti, Osun, Imo, Plateau impose 24-hr curfew …Two policemen, two civilians killed in Lagos; 4 police stations, vehicles burnt …Six feared killed in Dutse-Alhaji, as police station set ablaze …IGP orders deployment of anti-riot police officers, Charges officers to protect lives …Protesters defy curfew in Edo, govt insists… October 21, 2020 In "SARS Update"