 President Muhammadu Buhari has charged his ministers of agriculture to work with the states to rediscover the lost animal grazing routes and reserves as a means to ending the frequent outbreak of violence between farmers and herders. President Buhari also said that Nigerian farmers stand to reap the benefits of his government’s reforms as he continues to accord the highest priority to agriculture, describing it as the country’s largest employer of labour and engine of growth. Speaking a meeting with Katsina State Elders Forum at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, the President said his administration will continue to take steps to enhance output and productivity by ensuring the availability of cheap agricultural credits, farm inputs, fertilizer and the introduction of latest technologies. President Buhari in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu said the choice of practicing farmers as ministers in charge of agriculture, first Chief Audu Ogbe and now, Alhaji Sabo Nanono, was a reflection of his strong wish to protect the interest of farmers and the attainment of national food self-sufficiency. According to the statement, “He (Buhari) agreed to look into the request of the Katsina Elders for the expansion of existing irrigation schemes at Zobe and Sabke dams to enhance employment and profitability in agriculture, saying that a situation in which 60 per cent of the state is productive in rain-fed agriculture for three to four months, and idle for the rest of the year was unacceptable. “The President told the meeting that he had charged his ministers of agriculture to work with the states to rediscover the lost animal grazing routes and reserves as a means to ending the frequent outbreak of violence between farmers and herders. “He also pressed the necessity of educating school-age children, saying that once the opportunity of early education is lost, it often turns out very difficult for them to make up. “According to him, “This is the best preparation we can give to them. We destroy their lives by denying children education.” The statement further said that President Buhari also broached the issue of armed banditry and kidnapping that had bedevilled Katsina and other northwestern states and gave assurances that the situation will be overcome in the same way the farmer-herders attacks were subdued. The leader the delegation, Alhaji Aliyu Balarabe Saulawa representing the Chairman, Alhaji Ahmadu Kurfi, Maradin Katsina, commended the President for returning peace to most parts of the state and for the various infrastructure projects, including the Kano-Jigawa-Katsina-Maradi rail link. They welcomed the recent decision by government to elongate the service of teachers and improve their condition of service. The outburst  of the Defence Minister, Mansur Dan-Ali, that President Muhammadu Buhari asked states implementing the anti-open grazing law to stop forthwith, drew anger from Benue, Ekiti and Taraba states, the three states currently enforcing the law, which three vowed not to repeal the law. June 7, 2018 In "News" Abuja - Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has said that he always get angry whenever people blamed Buhari for not making comments concerning the destruction done by herdsmen, and other national issue. Obasanjo who made this known in Abuja on Tuesday at an agriculture seminar in Abuja organised by Lift Above… October 19, 2016 In "News" SENATE Committee on Agriculture said yesterday that it was supporting President Muhammadu Buhari's order to import grasses for grazing from Brazil. May 9, 2016 In "News"