The Organisation for Global Youth Peace Empowerment and Development Initiative (OGYPEDI),  has described  the attack on peaceful protesters at Lekki Toll Gate as an embarrassment to Nigeria. A statement by its  Coordinator,  Mr. Japhet Omene, said the offence the protesters committed was to demand good governance. “I think the only offence the protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate committed was their continual stay at the place, which may have affected some powerful individuals who were benefiting from the revenue being generated from the toll gate. Also, the call for a better country was a taboo for those who benefit from bad governance. “It is obvious that some persons are satisfied with the current state of Nigeria, hence the reason they fought hard against the call for a better Nigeria by deploying thugs and other machineries at their disposal to attack people clamouring for a better country. “It is really disheartening and worrisome that Nigeria is being managed this way. If nothing is done to change the current state of affairs, I fear much worse events are imminent. I want to use this medium to charge our government to hold those involved in the attack on peaceful protesters accountable. “I also implore the government to immediately set up a panel for job creation in a bid to appeal to citizens and show that it is genuinely working to ensure the standard of living of young Nigerians improves drastically.” Vanguard LEAGUE of Women Voters of Nigeria, NILOWV, has urged the Federal Government to commence an immediate judicial investigation into Tuesday's killings of unarmed EndSARS protesters at Lekki toll gate and bring those who authorised the actions to book. October 24, 2020 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni, Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Gabriel Ewepu & Luminous Jannamike The Presidency said Thursday Amnesty International does not run the country and was wrong in its report on the movement of soldiers from their barracks to Lekki Toll Gate, where peaceful #EndSARS protesters were shot at on Tuesday, October 20.… October 30, 2020 In "News" The #EndSARS protest, which was shelved after the Lekki Toll Gate shooting of unarmed protesters and subsequent hijacking of the protest by miscreants, has created further wedge between the Federal Government, FG and the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, over claims that the strike by the union helped to… October 29, 2020 In "Education"