Shell Nigeria Gas (SNG) said it would continue to optimise its onshore footprint while investing in gas development in Nigeria. This came as the company commissioned an indigenous contractor, Gredor Nigeria Limited, to begin the construction of the gas pipeline infrastructure to deliver gas to the Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board Industrial Park in Polaku, Bayelsa State. SNG had earlier in the year acquired the lease of one hectare of land in Polaku for the gas project which will supply gas for industries in the park and the environs. The project is expected to be delivered within six months. Speaking at the commissioning, the Managing Director, SNG, Ed Ubong said the Polaku project would boost industrialisation in Bayelsa State and provide employment opportunity for skilled and unskilled local population in addition to directly improving internally generated revenues in the state. He said, “The project will increase the over 150 industrial and commercial customers in Nigeria who currently receive SNG’s supply of natural gas through gas infrastructure that we have built with our partners and local stakeholders.” Responding to the rapid expansion of SNG as distribution network, Country Chair, Shell Companies in Nigeria, Osagie Okunbor said Shell was positioned to continue to optimise its onshore footprint while investing in gas. “For more than 50 years, Shell has been in the forefront of the campaign to develop and monetise Nigeria’s huge gas resources. SNG continues to demonstrate leadership in this space, growing the domestic gas market and also helping to improve lives in every state it operates.” SNG recently completed 20 kilometres domestic gas pipeline expansion project in Abia State, connecting Agbor Hill, Osisioma and Ariaria industrial zones. The expansion project has enabled the supply of pipeline gas to Ariaria Market Energy Solutions Limited, the Independent Power Project (IPP) consortium that provides electricity to the popular Ariaria market in Abia State. Ariaria International Market is one of the largest leather shoe-making and open stall markets in West Africa, with over 37,000 shops and an estimated one million traders. Vanguard News Nigeria. Shell Nigeria Gas, SNG has supplied gas to 90 industries in order to reduce gas flaring and enhance industrialisation in Nigeria. May 15, 2018 In "Energy" The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board said it has acquired a 10.2 hectare of land in Polaku community, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State for the construction of a proposed pipe mill. April 1, 2013 In "Sweet Crude" Shell Nigeria Gas, SNG, has alerted members of the public on the dangers of encroaching on the pathway of gas pipelines in a campaign targeting its business areas in Ogun, Rivers, and Abia states. September 30, 2014 In "Energy"