Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau has congratulated Rotimi Akeredolu on his re-election as governor of Ondo State, following his victory at the polls on Saturday. In a statement issued on Sunday in Jos by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr Makut Macham, Lalong, described Akeredolu’s victory as well deserved considering his achievements in the state in the past four years. The Plateau governor, who was also the Deputy Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC) Ondo Governorship Campaign Council, thanked the people of Ondo for their support and faith in Akeredolu and the APC. He assured them the people that they would not regret their support and re-election of Akeredolu, describing him as a leader who has the interest of his people . Lalong urged the governor to be magnanimous and carry all Ondo people along, irrespective of their socio-political affiliations, while urging the electorate to give him the unflinching support to ensure good governance. He also commended the electorate for their conduct during the elections, saying they exhibited high sense of responsibility and decorum. The Plateau governor lauded the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for organising a credible, free and fair election and also commended security agencies for their professionalism. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Gov. Akerelodu was re-elected for another term of four years following his victory at the Saturday polls. It would be recalled that Lalong was the Chairman of the Ondo State APC Governorship Campaign Council in 2016 when Gov. Akeredolu was elected for the first time.  ...12 govs storm Akure for Akeredolu …We’re fully behind Akeredolu — Fayemi, chairman Govs forum PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has assured that Saturday’s governorship poll will be peaceful, free and fair because measures have been taken to ensure so. In a video message to party supporters at the Grand Finale of… October 8, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the Governor-Elect of Ondo State, Chief Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on his victory in the Saturday, November 26 governorship election in the state. November 27, 2016 In "News" Akur - President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday, called for support for the governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Nov. 26 gubernatorial election in Ondo State. Buhari made this call stated at the Democracy Park, Akure, during the party’s mega campaign rally. “I am pleased with the Sept.… November 19, 2016 In "News"