Imo State government has said it is committed to the transformation of the wheel of justice in the state, as well as make it faster and available to all. Governor Hope Uzodinma made the promise, yesterday, at the Justice Transformation launch, in Owerri. “This is not about mere talking. All human beings must have access to justice. It is this administration’s resolve that we must not only change our system, but we must also ensure that our citizens have unfettered access to justice,” Uzodimma said. While affirming that “Imo citizens have challenges facing them, here and there,” the governor also said justice was not the exclusive preserve of the elite. Earlier in his address, the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, C. Akaolisa, said: “Prosperity is not only limited to food, water, electricity and other infrastructural necessities. This administration is committed to raising the dignity of Imo citizens.” He disclosed that government would set up Imo Justice Movement, a grassroots non-governmental movement that would carry justice transformation message to the rural areas. “They are to make citizens aware of their human rights, become aware of avenues to resolve their justice needs and update them on any new developments in the justice sector”, Akaolisa said. Vanguard By Nnamdi Ojiego Governor Hope Uzodinma has been a bastion of hope for Imo State people since his assumption of office on January 15, 2020, more especially, during this critical time when the masses are confronted with the threat of Coronavirus pandemic. Despite unfounded criticisms of his person and personality,… April 19, 2020 In "Viewpoint" Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State has extended the tenure of the Investigative Panels and Judicial Commissions of Inquiry, set up by the Emeka Ihedioha administration, on contracts, land acquisition and others. February 9, 2020 In "Politics" By Obi Nwakanma It is no longer news that the Supreme Court of Nigeria led by Tanko Muhammad had supervised what must now go down as the most controversial judgement in the history of the judiciary in Nigeria. Judges, like Justice Mrs Kekere-Ekun, who wrote the so-called lead opinion of… January 30, 2020 In "Politics"