Indigenes of flood-ravaged Adagbabiri community in Sagbama Local Government Area of Bayelsa State have called on the State and Federal Governments to provide them relief materials. According to community sources, the rising water level has exceeded that witnessed in 2018 and may reach that of 2012. Most houses in the community including school buildings, health and worship centres, and town hall have all been flooded with residents vacating their homes. Also, property and food items worth several millions of naira have been destroyed. Some community folks had to pack their valuables on elevated platforms to prevent them from being destroyed; while others take refuge in uncompleted structures on high ground to survive the menace. Some of the victims, including the oldest man in the community referred to as ‘Amakosowei’ of Adagbabriri community, Elder Fresh Esuku, the CDC Chairman, Mr Preye Awolowo Clarkson and others, described the flood as a perennial disaster. Another native, Mr Francis Aladou who cooks inside canoe; after his home was sacked by flood appealed for immediate relief such as food items, water, medications and flood displaced persons’ camps amongst others. “Though flooding is a perennial problem here,  the volume of the water this year is alarming. It has exceeded what we experienced in 2018 and may reach that of 2012. “Most of our houses including school buildings, health and worship centres, and town hall have been submerged,” they lamented. According to them, “only the dredging of the River Niger and other tributaries will bring an end to the menacing flood ravaging the community.” Vanguard News Nigeria. SOME riverside communities in Bayelsa State have been submerged by flood destroying properties worth millions of naira. September 17, 2018 In "News" YENAGOA—SOME riverside communities in Bayelsa State have been submerged by flood, destroying property worth millions of naira. September 18, 2018 In "News" DELTA State governor, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan, yesterday, directed all top government functionaries in the state from flood ravaged communities “to immediately relocate to their communities and assist in evacuation and providing relief assistance to the people.” September 28, 2012 In "News"