 A motivational speaker and leadership expert, Fela Durotoye, has lent his voice to the ongoing #EndSARS protests currently rocking the country. The former ANN presidential candidate, Durotoye, in a short video shared on his social media handle, disclosed that this generation of Nigerian youths will lead the country to the much-anticipated promise land. The protesters have been on the streets for 9 days, where they have held candle nights for victims of police brutality, organised Jumaat prayers and Sunday worship service. Durotoye warned that no one should try to be the leader of the protest but urged support for the #EndSARS protests. “I have been getting a lot of messages and people saying to me that Fela you need to step up, the young people need a leader and I said no, this is the most amazing generation we have ever seen and they are doing what we all desire to have seen and done in our own time.” He said. “The young people don’t need a leader, they need our support, our encouragement. You know what, the leader will emerge amongst them or a group of leaders will emerge. They are all owning this movement, owning the change. Anybody should not try to emerge as the leader or to lead them. let them be, support them”. he said. The #EndSARS protest which is now spreading across the nation has recently attracted reactions from the federal government, through the information minister,  Alhaji Lai Mohammed where he warned that the Federal government, under President Buhari would not allow the country slide into anarchy. Just before then, recall VANGUARD had reported that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo apologised on behalf of the federal government saying, the government could have moved faster but was impeded by constraints which it is trying to put under bearable control. Vanguard News Bishop David Oyedepo of Living Faith Church Worldwide, has joined the call for an end to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. Oyedepo, who spoke on Sunday at Canaan land, said that the youths have a right to express their displeasure and pains. The cleric said he was silent over the protest… October 18, 2020 In "SARS Update" By Bose Adelaja Scores of people were injured while commercial and vehicular activities were grounded Sunday, as the ongoing #EndSARS protests across the country resulted into violence, in Ikorodu area of Lagos State. The protesters were protesting against  Police brutality and violation of human rights for the past two weeks.… October 18, 2020 In "SARS Update" By Jimitota Onoyume - Warri EndSARS protesters took over the Effurun roundabout , Uvwie local government and the DSC roundabout  as early as 7am  demanding Police reform and better governance Some of the  protesters were decked in black t shirts. They displayed placards, banners  denouncing police harassment of innocent citizens.… October 18, 2020 In "SARS Update"