Mr. Ben Akabueze, the Director-General of the Budget Office, has said that the reason the country’s debt ratio is a cause for concern is not because the debt is high, but that revenue is low. Akabueze said this as a guest on Channels TV Friday morning, while commenting on the 2021 budget and government’s efforts at raising revenue. According to Akabueze, “While cutting cost of governance is in view, the government also has an efficiency unit, which continues to look into ideas to cut cost. “Looking at the structure of the budget, the single largest item in the 2020 budget is personnel cost with about N3.7 trillion. “We have debt service of N3.1 trillion, statutory transfer of nearly half a billion and capital expenditure, N3.5 trillion, which amount to over N10 trillion. “Even though our aggregate debt stock ordinarily shouldn’t be a concern, but our debt service aggregate ratio should be a concern and it’s a concern because the revenue is too low; not because the debt is high. “Therefore, if we address the real issue, as our revenue grows, the denominator grows and debt ratio declines. That is why tackling revenue is our number one challenge as a country, but it has not been easy.” He also noted that the government would revisit the recommendations of the Oronsaye report on rationalising, which he said is an ongoing process and for the 2021 budget. “I can also say that for the 2021 budget, there were a number of government agencies that generate their own revenues and still use to draw from the Federal Government’s budget. “That has been kicked out, effective from 2021 and if you aggregate savings from kicking such organisations, it amounts to over N80 billion. “Also because we are technically in a recession, the government is mindful about keeping people employed, as the private sector is not creating a lot of jobs and government is wary about compounding the unemployment problem,” Akabueze added. VANGUARD Many development experts are of the  opinion that there are some critical infrastructures that you cannot fix with your daily earnings. The 8th Senate turned down the $29.6billion loan request at that time but the President is bringing it back. What are your views about the claim that the plan… December 8, 2019 In "Business" By Victor ‘Tunde Oso & Nkiruka Nnorom With Nigeria’s debt stock growing by 3.11 per cent from $81.27 billion recorded in the first quarter of 2019 to $83.88 billion (N25.70 trillion) at the end of June 2019, economists are almost unanimous in opposition to President Muhammadu Buhari’s request to the… December 9, 2019 In "Business" THE Director General, Budget Office of the Federation, Mr Ben Akabueze, while defending Nigeria’s rapidly-increasing debt burden (which he called “sustainable”) also pointed out that our real problem is our low revenues. He also admitted that we have the lowest tax-to-GDP ratio in the African continent and one of the… June 26, 2017 In "Editorial"