Evicted Big Brother Naija housemate, Ozo has revealed why he ignored his love interest, Nengi during the last Saturday night party in the house. Ozo during his media rounds said all housemates were instructed not to go close or gesticulate to the finalist. This, he said, was to avoid hinting who would emerge winner of the grand prize to the five finalists. Recall that having a boyfriend outside the house had stopped Nengi from dating Ozo. Recall that Nengi had on Saturday said her friendship with Ozo was over because he ignored her at the night party. Reacting, Ozo said, ”I didn’t mean to ignore her. It was a directive, for all of us that came out, we were all instructed not to get close to the housemates. ”We were instructed not to gesticulate at the party, so I was playing by the rules. ”I felt bad seeing her cry so I could not wait for the next day so I would tell her it was the directive and I was playing by the rules.” He added that Nengi is a lovable, smart and loyal person. According to him, ”We will always be loyal, close to each other and always have each other’s back.” Vanguard News Nigeria By David Royal Just a few hours to the Lockdown season's grand finale, the finalists were treated to one last Saturday night party, this time with evicted housemates in attendance. It was all fun until the party ended and housemate, Nengi broke down in tears, lamenting that most of the… September 27, 2020 In "Entertainment" Big Brother Naija housemate, Nengi has vowed that her friendship with Ozo will be over when she leaves the house on Sunday. Nengi said this while expressing her disappointment on Ozo over his actions towards her during Saturday night party. Ozo ignored Nengi and refused to have any form of… September 27, 2020 In "Entertainment" By David Royal Big Brother Naija Housemate, Nengi, has again warned fellow housemate Ozo not to expect that she will have a relationship or do anything sexual with him in and outside the house. Nengi said this to Ozo on Saturday night during a conversation with him while emphasizing that… September 12, 2020 In "Entertainment"