<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> A lady whose name is yet to be confirmed has surfaced on social media allegedly claiming to have a child for the current BBnaija winner, Laycon. In then short Video, the lady alleged that Laycon slept with her after they had both party at a [popular club in Lagos, QILOX, after which she decided to pass the night with Laycon. She claimed that after the “one night stand” Laycon gave her his contact which she found to be not correct when she tried to reach out to him. According to the lady, She started throwing up and having other symptoms of pregnancy a few months after the sexual intercourse occurred between them. She claimed that she decided to voice out when she saw Laycon on the popular BBnaija show. However, In a swift reaction, Laycon handlers led by Nollywood actress Scarlet Gomez have reacted to the viral video by his alleged baby mama that the BBNaija Lockdown winner got her pregnant as false. She said Laycon doesn’t know the lady and has never met her. In her words: “We don’t know her and laycon has never seen her” Vanguard News Disqualified Big Brother Naija season 5 Housemate, Erica Nlewedim has denied reports that Laycon, winner of the show, told her he was a Sickle Cell carrier. Laycon had confirmed while still in the Big brother house that he's a sickle cell carrier. According to him, “My blood group is Sickle… September 30, 2020 In "Entertainment" By David Royal Just a few hours to the Lockdown season's grand finale, the finalists were treated to one last Saturday night party, this time with evicted housemates in attendance. It was all fun until the party ended and housemate, Nengi broke down in tears, lamenting that most of the… September 27, 2020 In "Entertainment" Big Brother Naija Lockdown housemates, Laycon and Nengi’s erotic dance last night has generated reactions from viewers of the Nigerian topmost reality TV show. In a viral video, Laycon could be seen holding and touching Nengi’s near-nude bikini body as they danced at the Jacuzzi. Nengi has always been free… September 26, 2020 In "Entertainment"