Future Female Invest, FFI, has said that it is set to close $42 billion financing gap for African women even as it shops for about 1000 investible businesses for ready women in Nigeria by 2021. FFI is an organization powering financial opportunity for African women with a mission to driving women economic empowerment solutions. Speaking at a zoom meeting titled: “Ready to Thrive”, Chief Executive/Founder of FFI, Ms. Aysha Julie, said Africa has become the first continent of female entrepreneurship where 27 percent of women in Africa create businesses, the highest rate globally. She added that 90 percent of these women contribute positively to the economy, reinvesting up to 90 percent of their income in the education, health and nutrition of their family and community, compared to 40 percent for men. Julie stated: “According to the AfDB there is a $42 billion financial gap for African women across value chain. We put power into the hands of African women. We ensure our voices are heard and we are given economic power.” Also speaking, Advisor for FFI, Ms. Nourath Bhugeeloo, said small business enterprise do not attract business because they do not have the governance structure, saying it is essential for all business to have a we balanced structure. Investing in this at early stage will reap benefit. PRESIDENT, African Development Bank Group, AFDB, Dr. Akinwumi A Adesina has called on African leaders to invest in women and girls as a means to fast track economic, social and a political opportunities. Adding that women are the best investments any society can make December 5, 2019 In "Woman's Own" African Development Bank Group (AfDB), yesterday, said it has approved a new Gender Equality Trust Fund (GETF), that would unlock up to $2 billion in credit, in the first instance and further mobilise $5 billion in the long run, for women-empowered businesses in Africa. April 3, 2020 In "News" What a man can do, a woman can do better, goes a popular saying. This implies that a woman is endowed with potentials, which when properly harnessed, can make a woman function at the same level of performance or even at higher level than a man. The validity of this… July 24, 2012 In "Business"