DELTA State Government, Tuesday said it would present a draft of 2021 budget estimate of N378 billion to the State House of Assembly next week for approval. The State Commissioner for Information,  Mr Charles Aniagwu who stated this while briefing newsmen after the State Executive Council meeting,  the Exco approved a draft estimate of N378 billion as budget for 2021. Saying the State Executive Council meeting presided over by the state governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, Aniagwu said that about N174 billion would be used for recurrent expenditure while N203 billion would be channelled into critical infrastructure. He emphasised that the budget would be used mainly to advance the ‘Stronger Delta Vision’ of the state government. Aniagwu  said; “the first very important decision that was reached at today’s exco is the approval of the draft estimate of 2021 budget of the state. A budget of N372 billion was presented by the Economic Planning Ministry for consideration at Exco. “After some adjustments here and there and the need for us to also tackle certain critical infrastructure in the state, the budget was taken up to N378 billion. So, that is what is going to be presented to the state House of Assembly. “Good enough, in that budget, we have about N174 billion and some fractions that will be deployed to recurrent expenditure and the remaining N203 billion and some fractions will be deployed to address critical infrastructure in the state and this infrastructure is aimed at strengthening the ‘Stronger Delta Agenda’ of the administration. “That budget, by the grace of God, will be presented to the state House of Assembly by next week by His Excellency, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa so that before the beginning of 2021, the budget would have been signed into law and becomes operational.” The Information Commissioner who was joined by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor,  Mr Olisa Ifeajika disclosed that approval was also given for the concessioning of the Asaba International Airport for 30 years, adding that the airport would be developed to meet world class standard. According to him, Exco also mandated the state Boundary Committee to take proactive steps towards addressing inter community and inter state boundary disputes with a view to promoting peace and economic harmony between Delta and Edo states. Aniagwu added that Exco gave approval for the appointment of Ovie Whiskey as the Ovie of Ijerhe Kingdom in Ethiope West Local Government Area of the state and Johnson Ologho as the Odion of Emevor in Isoko North Local Government Area of the state. Speaking further, he debunk the rumour and reports that the total reconstruction of the pathological building and the upgrade of the clinical facilities of the Delta State University Teaching Hospital, DELSUTH, Oghara was being handled by a relative of the governor at a whooping amount of money. He disclosed that the two projects were being handled by two reputable firms to enable the hospital be at par with the ones in developed societies. On the flooding in parts of the state,  Aniagwu reiterated that the state government was not going to set up holding camps, adding that plans were on to mitigate the impact of the flood on citizens through the Ministry of Environment. He held that the current economic climate cannot derail the ‘Stronger Delta Vision’ of Governor Okowa. vanguard News Nigeria The Delta State Executive Council, today, approved a draft estimate of N378 billion as budget for 2021 which would be presented to the state House of Assembly next week for approval. October 13, 2020 In "News" ...engages two consultants to probe FG records By Festus Ahon DELTA State Government, Wednesday raised suspicion over what it was being paid as proceeds from the 13 percent oil derivation, disclosing that it has engaged two consultants to probe the suspected shortfalls in the payments. The State Commissioner for Information,… September 3, 2020 In "News" The Delta State Government has announced that it was taking steps to review the 2020 budget to reflect current economic realities occasioned by the Coronavirus pandemic ravaging the world. April 9, 2020 In "News"