The Nigeria Police Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, has described some Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) protesters as “pseudo-activists.” This is just as the Deputy Commissioner of Police noted that some parts of Nigeria (some northern states) have supported the continuous operations of the anti-robbery squad in their states. Speaking at the Sunrise Daily interview on Channels, Frank Mba said there are different categories of protesters: He described the first group as genuine protesters that want an end to the extrajudicial killings of some bad eggs in the police force. He described the other group as clout chases, pseudo-activists that are portraying theirselves as influencers. “Some of the people against SARS are the ones that are involved in shady deals; they engage in arm selling, and other crimes…” Frank Mba, emphasising on the commitment of the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, to sanistise the police system highlighted 10 points on the position of the IGP: Vanguard Perez Brisibe, Ughelli Tension on Thursday enveloped the Otovwodo axis of Ughelli, headquarters of Ughelli North local government area of Delta State as a policeman was killed following the protest that rocked the town in the wake of the #ENDSARS Protest. The incident also led to the destruction of several… October 8, 2020 In "News" By Chinonso Alozie The police officer whose name was given as Obioma Obi, who cocked his gun threatening to shoot protesters demanding for the scrapping of the Special Anti Robbery Squad, SARs, yesterday in Owerri, has been indicted by the Imo state police Commissioner, Isaac Akinmoyede. The Commissioner of Police,… October 9, 2020 In "News" EVERYTHING possible must be done to avoid bringing politics into #ENDSARS, the campaign by some social activists to have the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, of the Nigeria Police scrapped. The campaign, which took off in the social media made a worrisome landfall in the streets of some cities such as… December 22, 2017 In "Editorial"