Former Minister of Finance Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala has expressed her gratitude and humility for being the most acceptable candidate for the seat of Director-General of the World Trade Organisation, WTO. All but one is not set for the former Managing Director of World Bank to emerge as the first African and female WTO DG. With South Korean Trade Minister Yoo Myung-hee. on her way and last minute “hiccup” from the United States, Okonjo-Iweala is anticipating the next and final step of the screening November 9 with positivity. She said on her verified Twitter handle, “Happy for the success & continued progress of our @wto  DG bid. Very humbled to be declared the candidate with the largest, broadest support among members & most likely to attract consensus. We move on to the next step on Nov 9, despite hiccups. We’re keeping the positivity going!” Happy for the success & continued progress of our @wto DG bid. Very humbled to be declared the candidate with the largest, broadest support among members & most likely to attract consensus. We move on to the next step on Nov 9, despite hiccups. We’re keeping the positivity going! — Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala (@NOIweala) October 29, 2020  Vanguard Despite the wide support for her, the United States  of America, USA, said it would not support the appointment of Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, former minister of finance, as the World Trade Organisation, WTO, Director-General, DG. A report published on Bloomberg revealed US position on the Okonjo-Iweala's candidacy. The Deputy U.S.… October 28, 2020 In "Business" READING the biographies of the eight candidates for the next Director-General of the World Trade Organisation, WTO, it’s obvious that Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala has the most intimidating and awe-inspiring credentials. August 6, 2020 In "State of the Nation with Olu Fasan" Says best hand for the Job By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja As candidates jostle for the Director-General position of the World Trade Organisaion, WTO, Female Parliamentary in Nigeria, Friday, threw weight behind former Minister of Finance, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, to occupy the number one position of the organization. Their support for… September 4, 2020 In "News"