The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for backing Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala in emerging as the first female and African Director-General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO).  The party’s National Chairman, Mr Uche Secondus, gave the commendation in a statement issued by his Media Aide, Mr Ike Abonyi, in Abuja on Wednesday.  Secondus welcomed what he described as historic emergence of Okonjo-Iweala, the Nigeria’s former Finance Minister, as the first female and African D-G  of the WTO.  He commended Buhari for putting aside political sentiment in backing both Okonjo-Iweala and Dr Akinwumi Adesina, the President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), for the exalted international jobs.  He said Okonjo-Iweala’s victory coming shortly after the re- election of Adesina as the AfDB President, gladdened particularly the PDP who he said brought Nigeria’s best heads into government. The PDP national chairman said that the victory of  Okonjo-Iweala in the highly contested global position mirrors the greatness of tomorrow’s Nigeria.  “Okonjo-Iweala’s victory is a reward for hardwork and commitment to excellence as she demonstrated in all positions she held nationally and internationally. “This savoring news coming at this time that the nation is witnessing her worse is relieving and hope rising that a greater tomorrow awaits this land.”  Secondus also commended the international community particularly the ECOWAS  and the African Union, AU, for showing brotherhood when it was highly needed. He prayed God to grant her daughter all she would need, including wisdom, the intellect and discerning mind to lead the World trade.  Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday promised to contact world leaders for their support for the victory of Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who is contesting for the position of Director-General of the World Trade Organization, WTO. President Buhari, who made the promise when he met behind closed… October 12, 2020 In "News" …Promises to lobby World leaders for their support ….Put a smile on my face—Okonjo-Iweala begs President By Johnbosco Agbakwuru PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Monday promised to contact world leaders for their support for the victory of Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who is contesting for the position of Director-General of the World… October 12, 2020 In "News" Idowu Bankole Nigeria's President,  Muhammadu Buhari Monday in Abuja assured Nigeria’s former Minister of Finance and Economy, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, that the country will explore every opportunity and deploy its entire energy to ensure that she becomes the Director-General of World Trade Organisation (WTO). Dr Okonjo-Iweala is one of two… October 14, 2020 In "News"