The Federal Capital Territory Security Committee has banned #EndSARS protests in Abuja, the nation’s capital, for alleged violation of the COVID-19 protocols. The FCT Administration said it was concerned that despite the scrapping of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad by the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, last Sunday, the demonstrations had continued, causing inconveniences to law-abiding citizens. The resolutions of the meeting were contained in a statement on Wednesday titled,’COVID-19: FCT Security Committee prohibits street demonstrations,’ signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the FCT minister, Mr Anthony Ogunleye. The meeting which held on Tuesday to review the security situation in the FCT and address identified challenges, was chaired by the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello and had in attendance the Permanent Secretary, FCTA, Mr Olusade Adesola, heads of the various security agencies and military formations in the FCT, senior members of staff of the FCTA, representatives of religious and traditional institutions as well as Area Council chairmen. The statement read, “While the committee recognizes the rights of citizens as regards freedom of association and movement as enshrined in the constitution, it has observed that the unruly conduct of the crowd and manner of demonstrations are in complete violation of the COVID-19 safety protocols which were put in place to safeguard the lives of citizens. “These violations endanger the lives of not just the demonstrators, but also other citizens going about their legitimate concerns. One year after the  #RevolutionNow protests, there were series of protests in many cities of Nigeria, yesterday, leading to clashes between demonstrators and security agents. August 6, 2020 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi ABUJA: The Federal Capital Territory Administration FCTA has released over 40 #RevolutionNow protesters who were earlier in the day arrested at the Unity Fountain by a joint security taskforce for violating the Covid-19 safety protocols. The protesters had heeded the call of Omoyele Sowore, leader of the… August 5, 2020 In "News" …Armed thugs attack protesters in Abuja, Lagos …Sanwo-Olu appeals, says govts currently addressing demands …#EndSARS protest, reflection of leadership failure - Okowa …Motorists, commuters stranded, lament as protests trigger traffic gridlocks …#NotoSWAT protests rock Warri …Awkuzu SARS under lock as protesters paralyze Awka …Police have killed 10 #EndSARS protesters –… October 15, 2020 In "News"