Kingmakers of Zazzau Emirate are currently engaged in a fresh process to recommend candidates for the office of the 19th Fulani Emir of Zazzau, the Secretary to the Kaduna State Government, SSG, Balarabe Abbas Lawal has disclosed. Muyiwa Adekeye, Special Adviser to the Governor (Media & Communication)stated this in a statement on Wednesday. According to the statement, “the SSG explained that the Kaduna State Government directed a new round of the selection process following the cancellation of the initial process, which excluded two interested applicants. The Bunu Zazzau complained that he was unable to submit his application because he was told that the window for receipt of applications had closed. The Sarkin Dajin Zazzau also protested his exclusion from the process. It was also noted that the kingmakers assessed two candidates on 24th September 2020 without sighting their CVs which the selectors received a day later. The SSG said that the state government considers as highly irregular the leakage of the report of the selection meeting of 24th September 2020 before its receipt by the state governor. The kingmakers are now meeting to assess all the 13 candidates that indicated interest from all the ruling houses, including the two that were previously excluded. The report of these assessments will be swiftly submitted to the governor for his consideration, the statement by the SSG concluded. Vanguard News Nigeria. …As govt decries leaked Royal memo By Ibrahim HassanWuyo Kingmakers of Zazzau Emirate are currently engaged in a fresh process to recommend candidates for the office of the 19th Fulani Emir of Zazzau, the Secretary to the Kaduna State Government, SSG, Balarabe Abbas Lawal has disclosed. Muyiwa Adekeye, Special Adviser… September 30, 2020 In "News" By Ibrahim Hassan The selection process for the new Emir of Zazzau is proceeding with the careful attention befitting such a momentous decision, according to Balarabe Abbas Lawal, the Secretary to the Kaduna State Government. According to a statement issued by Muyiwa Adekeye, Special Adviser to the Governor (Media &… September 26, 2020 In "News" The Kaduna State Government on Friday, confirmed that it had received the report of Zazzau Emirate kingmakers, for the appointment of a new Emir of Zazzau. This is contained in a statement issued in Kaduna by Mr Muyiwa Adekeye, Special Adviser to Gov. Nasiru El-Rufai on Media and Communication. The… September 26, 2020 In "News"