The Nigerian entertainment space is about to receive a major boost as Evoke Musik, a new entertainment company based in the US with its subsidiary in Lagos , signs on its flagship artiste, “Jethro Lion” (Jethro Chinweotito Abara) a raggae/dancehall act. Speaking during the unveiling of the artiste recently in Lagos, the CEO of the platform, Mfon Essien, stated that Evoke Musik would redefine the entertainment landscape in Nigeria through the release of authentic and relatable music with lyrical depth, that has a feel-good effect on the listener and portrays a positive image of Nigeria, home and abroad. He said: “An embodiment of creativity, Jethro Lion is not one to chase trends for the sake of clout. Nigerians should get ready, as a new storm is about to blow across the entertainment industry. Devoted and true to his artform, that storm is “Jethro Lion,” a multi-talented triple-threat, Singer/Songwriter, Music Producer and Performer. Expressing appreciation to his record label, Jethro Lion aka “The Melody Maker” said: “It has been a challenging journey for me. Faced with the financial challenges of promoting my music mainstream as an independent artiste, I struggled with the competition but we give thanks to Jah for signing on to Evoke Musik. Facilitated through “Freestyle Tha Shogun,” now referred to as “Mista Styles,” the prolific award-winning Hiphop/Afrobeat artiste from the now defunct veteran trio popularly known as the “Trybesmen.” “I had produced some unreleased music for him back in the day and despite being the CEO of Evoke Musik, “Mista Styles” is like a big brother to me. He sabi me reach house and we definitely go way back. I can’t thank him enough for this privilege of being signed to Evoke Musik.” Jethro Lion hails Ezinihitte in Mbaise LGA of Imo State. He started his music career while he was in primary school. At the age of 11, he joined his church choir, where he honed his skills on the piano and drums, becoming the official drummer of the church. vanguardngr.com For every M.I there is a Chocolate city , for every Jaywon there is a Kennis music. This report explores the competition among record labels and how they battle to outdo each other in the marketplace March 15, 2014 In "Showtime People" Live beats, Nigeria’s longest running music programme on TV is 15.And to celebrate the milestone achievement, 2Face Idibia’s led Hypetek Entertainment and his management company, Now Musik are taking are bringing together a one of its kind dinner that will have in attendance celebrities across all walks of life. March 10, 2011 In "Showtime People" Nigerian entertainment powerhouse, Lions Music (a subsidiary of Lions Entertainment) is ready to take over the Nigerian music scene with the unveiling of fast rising sensation, TIM and famous disc jockey, Dj Kentalky. The 360-degree entertainment company at a press briefing on Wednesday, February 24 2016 introduced the new music… February 27, 2016 In "Entertainment"