The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to take practical steps to entrench the culture of rule of law and strengthen harmonious living in Nigeria. The party gave the advice in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, in reactions to Buhari’s speech on Nigeria at 60 independence anniversary. Ologbondiyan urged Buhari to take the steps through inclusiveness, equity in wealth distribution and equal access to opportunities for all Nigerians irrespective of creed, class, and ethnicity. Ologbondiyan advised Buhari to take urgent steps that would address the challenge of divisive tendencies and economic policies confronting the country. He also advised Buhari to engender harmony and productivity by allowing for more robust discourse that would lead to affordable prices for fuel and other essential commodities in the country. Ologbondiyan said the attempt to justify the increase of fuel price in Nigeria by comparing it with the N168 per litre cost in Saudi Arabia was not tenable. He said that  the minimum wage in “Saudi Arabia is N305,113 (3000 Saudi Riyals), 10 times higher than our paltry N30,000 which is largely unimplemented in Nigeria.” Ologbondiyan said that on the average, a person working in Saudi Arabia earned around 4,230SAR (N430, 267) to 16,700 SAR (N1,698,693) per month. He added that in Egypt the monthly average earning was around N222, 841 (9,200 EGP) against our N30,000. “In comparing our costs with other countries such as Ghana, Chad and Niger where the purchasing power of citizens is much higher, did Mr President reflect on the cost of house rent? “Did he compare the cost of education, healthcare and average dependence on fuel for daily survival by ordinary citizens as obtainable in Nigeria?” Ologbondiyan said if present administration had continued with the programmes laid by previous administrations under PDP to revive the country’s refineries and provide the infrastructural backbone for the productive sector, fuel price would not be more than N100 per litre. He said that such would have applied to the gains from by-product from crude oil. “Furthermore, credible elections are essential to harmonious living. “Our party, therefore, restates our commendation to Mr President for his newfound commitment to non-interference in elections leading to conduct of free, fair and credible governorship election in Edo State on Sept. 19. “We urge President Buhari to toe the line of the Edo election in the Oct. 10, Ondo governorship election so as to consolidate the legacy of a free and fair election under his watch.” Ologbondiyan advised Mr President to exert himself on rebuilding Nigeria economy by ending borrowing and focusing on productive capacity. Ologbondiyan said that security was pivotal to the economic revival. He added that the unceasing acts of insurgency, banditry and kidnapping in the last few years had negatively affected the nation’s productivity and threatened its corporate existence. He advised Buhari to rejig his security architecture to inject new blood that would effectively confront the security challenges of the nation, as well as employ more competent hands in the affairs of the nation. Vanguard News …Faults fuel price comparisons  By Dirisu Yakubu The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Thursday, described President Muhammadu Buhari’s independence anniversary speech as a slap on the sensibilities of Nigerians, particularly his justification of his administration’s increment of the pump price of the Premium Motor Spirit, also known as fuel. President Buhari… October 1, 2020 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised the Federal Government to take urgent steps to address the concerns being expressed by Nigerians in the overall determination to check the spread of the pandemic in the country. April 15, 2020 In "News" Wants Electoral Act Amendment Bill returned to NASS within two weeks By Dirisu Yakubu As Nigerians mark the first anniversary of the declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day today, the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP has taken a swipe at President Muhammadu Buhari, saying all the… June 11, 2020 In "News"