 The Harvard Kennedy School Alumni Association of Nigeria has demanded an end to the killing of Nigerian youths calling for an end to police brutality. HKSAAN said this in a statement titled, ‘Stop the Attack on Nigerian Youths’ signed by its President, Frank Nweke, who is a former Minister of Information. The association said over the past 12 days, Nigerians in different parts of the country had engaged in peaceful demonstrations to express their outrage and demand an end to the abusive actions that the police and its Special Anti Robbery Squad Unit, had meted upon citizens, especially young Nigerians. It, therefore, expressed shock over the use of lethal force to quell protests at the Lekki Tollgate Plaza on Tuesday. The statement read in part, “Earlier in the evening of Tuesday, October 20, 2020, we were horrified to watch, live, on social media, as Nigeria’s security forces unleashed live bullets on peaceful protestors at the Lekki Tollgate in Lagos, with yet to be determined casualties. “On behalf of the entire membership of the Harvard Kennedy School Alumni Association of Nigeria, we offer our heartfelt condolences to the families of the dead and pray for the repose of the souls of their loved ones. “We also call upon our brave and courageous compatriots who are rightfully asserting their right to life and improved quality of life as citizens of Nigeria to restrain from further acts of violence and through dialogue work with the government to address the very legitimate demands they are making.” The group said citizens’ right to protest is the hallmark of responsible and democratic governments all over the world. It added that turning weapons against Nigerian citizens for asserting their right to life undermines the legitimacy of the Nigerian state. “We, therefore, call on the government of Nigeria to immediately call off the security forces and stop the killings. Similarly, the government is encouraged to reinforce its commitment to dialogue and to work assiduously to reform Nigeria’s security services and overall security architecture, strengthen the justice system and institutions, for the benefit of all citizens,” HKSAAN stated. The group said it would continue in solidarity with millions of Nigerians in the protest against unjust actions by members of the security services. “We urge the federal and state governments to put in place adequate reforms that will address police brutality, entrench good governance and guarantee the basic rights of justice and equality, which should be the legitimate entitlement of all Nigerians,” the association said. Vanguard The perceived ‘lazy’ and ‘criminally-minded ‘Nigerian youths recently woke up from a deep slumber and began to look for space in the society. With the #EndSARS, the youths want an end to police brutality. And from happenings in the the last few days it clear that they are also restructuring… October 17, 2020 In "News" ...Condemns attempts to disrupt peaceful protests ...Lists ways to halt #EndSARS protests By Luminous Jannamike, Abuja The Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN has advised the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, to suspend efforts made towards the establishment of the Special Weapons And Tactical, SWAT, unit of the Nigerian Police… October 19, 2020 In "News" …Hoodlums burn down 50 cars in Apo, Abuja …Benin prisons attacked, scores of inmates freed, police stations attacked, arms carted away  Edo govt imposes 24 hours curfew, attacks spread to Auchi, protesters block Sapele end of Warri-Benin highway …Protester stabbed Saturday dies in Abuja, 12-yr old dies in Delta …It’s… October 20, 2020 In "SARS Update"