The Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni has ordered immediate nationwide deployment of anti-riot police unit – the Police Mobile Force (PMF) – to protect lives and property of all Nigerians and secure critical national infrastructure across the country. The IGP has also ordered massive deployment of Police operatives to strengthen security around Correctional facilities nationwide. The orders are coming on the heels of increasing attacks including acts of arson and malicious damage to public and private facilities as recorded in some States of the Federation including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Consequently, the Commissioners of Police in the thirty-six (36) States of the Federation and the FCT are to identify and isolate law-breakers from peaceful protesters; immediately arrest and diligently prosecute such perpetrators of violence in their respective Commands. The IGP notes that twelve (12) suspects have been arrested in connection with the attacks and arson on Police Stations in Benin, Edo State. Five (5) AK47 rifles earlier stolen from vandalized Police Stations have also been recovered. The Inspector-General of Police calls on members of the public to avail the police with useful information that can lead to the re-arrest of the fleeing inmates, unlawfully released from Correctional facilities. Meanwhile, the IGP has advised parents/guardians to prevail on their children/wards to steer-clear of acts of violence and criminality as the Force will henceforth exercise the full powers of the law to prevent any further attempt on lives and property of citizens.  Ahead of the Presidential/National Assembly elections today, the Inspector General of Police, Ag. IGP M.A  Adamu, has ordered a water-tight and robust security arrangement in the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). February 23, 2019 In "Elections 2019 Updates" THE Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, has ordered a comprehensive water-tight and round-the-clock security for all INEC offices and facilities nationwide. February 10, 2019 In "News" Victor Ogunyinka The Nigeria Police Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, has described some Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) protesters as "pseudo-activists." This is just as the Deputy Commissioner of Police noted that some parts of Nigeria (some northern states) have supported the continuous operations of the anti-robbery squad in their states.… October 9, 2020 In "News"