Ayomde Emmanuel Olagunju, professionally known as Leczy, born August 17, 1998, who hails from Osun State, and based in Cape Town, South Africa, is a musician and songwriter that has discovered his many talents because of passion. He began his education at Testimony High School Ogun State, went on to Talavic International College, Ijoko, Ogun State, before going on to obtain a National Diploma in Computer Engineering at D.S. Adegbenro ICT Polytechnic, Eruku Itori, Ewekoro, Ogun State. Born to Mr. Emmanuel Olagunju and Mrs Helen Olagunju and the fourth child out of five, he has always wanted to be a footballer, but his love for music and songwriting was more intense. Leczy has been involved in other forms of entertainment since 2016, including magazine production, scriptwriting, acting and songwriting. Decidedly, he chose being an artiste because “music is a means of expressing my inner feelings about the milieu, situations around the world and in the mould of my mentor, late Fela Anikulapo Kuti.” Described by music aficionados as immensely talented, it is not a surprise that since he started professional music in this year, his stock as a musician has also been on the rise. Leczy (Ayomde Emmanuel Olagunju), whose style of music is Afro-pop, hip-hop and Afrobeat has started his foray into the Nigerian music industry. He is set to storm the music scene with his latest project, which begins with a potential chart bursting song featuring some international and African artiste. VANGUARD One of Nigeria’s oldest surviving highlife musicians, Fatai Olayiwola Olagunju, popularly known as Fatai Rolling Dollar died, yesterday morning in Lagos. June 12, 2013 In "News" Nigerian hip-hop artiste, Emmanuel Dinoke, known professionally as RichKing, has disclosed the relationship between him and Grammy Award nominee, Damini Ogulu, known professionally as Burna Boy, multi-award winner, Innocent Idibia, known on stage as 2Baba and David Adeleke popularly called Davido remain intact and cordial. May 30, 2020 In "News" The Zakat & Zadaqat Foundation, under The Muslim Congress (TMC), recently in Akure, disbursed cash and items worth N1million to 31 less privileged people in Ondo State. November 17, 2017 In "Facing The Ka'aba"