Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba state has issued a stern warning to communities in the state against using firearms to resolve disputes. The governor spoke while receiving the report of a Commission of Inquiry the state government constituted into the Shomo/Jole feud. The Shomo and Jole tribes in Lau local government area of the state have over the years been embroiled in bloody conflicts, over the ownership of a fish pond. The dispute which had spanned various administrations in the state had resulted in the loss of lives and valuables. The governor while speaking, wondered why communities who have intermarried for many years will take up arms against each other. He noted that most crises in the state are surmountable, and admonished waring communities to eschew all form of bitterness and embrace peace. Earlier in his remark, Chairman of the probe panel, Justice Silas Haruna told the Governor that his Commission found out that the ownership of the fish pond was not the only cause of the crisis. He explained that the recent blood bath among the two tribes was caused by negative remarks, in which one tribe accused the other of being an outcast. Justice Haruna also attributed the delay in the submission of the probe report to the wholistic approach employed by the Commission to do a thorough job. Vanguard Taraba state government has banned all fishing activities in all disputed ponds that has led to loss of lives and properties in Lau local government area of the state. June 9, 2020 In "News" By Danjuma Peters THE recent hullabaloo over Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku’s extended stay in Abuja following a domestic accident he had sustained earlier is nothing but political blackmail carried too far. It is also proof of the amount of mischief politicians can do in their bid for political office. In… February 25, 2020 In "News" Taraba state government has said the state governor, Darius Ishaku, is a governor for all citizens of the state as against some insinuations that he is a Jukun governor. April 9, 2020 In "News"