Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State on Tuesday night, held a security meeting to assess the violent trend the EndSARS protest has assumed in the state where he warned that violators of the currently imposed curfew would be penalised. At the meeting which held in the government house behind closed doors were his deputy, Comrade Philip Shaibu, Secretary to State Government, Osarodion Ogie Esq, a newly deployed Deputy Inspector General of Police, Celestine Okoye, Commissioner of Police Babatunde Johnson Kokumo, state commandant of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps and the State Director of the Department of State Services among others. Speaking shortly after the meeting, Obaseki said the meeting became necessary to analyse and access the security development in the state. He said “We deliberated extensively on the security issues, fortunately, the DIG Celestine Okoye has come to support the command in maintaining law and others in the state. “You will recall that the government imposed a 24 hours curfew on October 19 beginning from 4 pm. “I want to thank the law-abiding citizens of Edo for largely complying with the curfew. “However, we observed that a few hoodlums violated the curfew most of the day today (Tuesday) as a result, the security chiefs have met and certain stern action would follow shortly,” he said. Also speaking, Okoye said he was deployed to Edo to support the state command in maintaining law and order and boost the morale of the people just he warned hoodlums and miscreants to stay off the roads and streets. He said “I have come here to boost your morale and l want to also ask miscreants to please remain in their houses and be law-abiding from now on. “Because you may meet something that is not good for you,” he said. Vanguard To convene special EXCO over coronavirus The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said the state government is firming up strategies to evolve a vigilante outfit that would form part of the base of the state’s security architecture as part of moves to check farmer-herder clashes in the state.… March 18, 2020 In "News" The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said that the state government will not relent in its effort to flush out criminal elements from the state, assuring that security has been beefed up with relevant agencies to ensure the safety of life and property in the state. October 13, 2018 In "News" …Protesters now ask for good governance …Candlelight procession for victims …To watch premiership matches on screen at Lekki today …Plan Sunday service at same venue tomorrow Four protesters died yesterday and scores of others were critically injured as protests by Nigerian youths against police brutality, tagged #EndSARS, entered day nine… October 17, 2020 In "SARS Update"