Oyo State Governor, Mr Seyi Makinde, has directed schools in Ibadan, the state capital, to resume normal academic activities from Monday 26th October, 2020. The Honourable Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mr Olasunkanmi Olaleye, who made this known in a statement issued on Sunday, said that the directive followed a review of the situation in Ibadan metropolis as earlier promised by the governor in a state broadcast. The statement read: “His Excellency, Governor Seyi Makinde, directed the closure of  schools in Ibadan metropolis on Tuesday, 20th of October, 2020, following the #EndSARS protests that rocked the state. “His Excellency had, in a message to the people of Oyo State, stated that the situation will be reviewed on Friday, 23rd October, 2020. “Following a review of the situation as earlier promised, the state government is happy to observe that normalcy has returned to the state in the aftermath of the protests. “His Excellency,  Governor Makinde, appreciates the youths who have been cooperating with security operatives to maintain peace, while assuring them that their demands are being addressed,” the statement concluded. Vanguard News Nigeria. Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has directed schools in Ibadan to resume normal academic activities from Monday.   The state’s Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mr Olasunkanmi Olaleye, made this known in a statement issued on Sunday in Ibadan. READ ALSO:#EndSARS Protests: Buhari condemns eviction notices to ethic,… October 25, 2020 In "News" ...as hoodlums hijack protest By Adeola Badru Following the violence that trailed the ENDSARS protest in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, Governor of the state, Mr. Seyi Makinde, has deployed members of the Operation Burst to various hotspots in the metropolis, to arrest the situation and restore normalcy. The governor, in… October 20, 2020 In "News" By Adeola Badru Six suspects arrested in connection with the crisis that visited the protest against police brutality at the Ogbomoso area of Oyo State last week were freed by the court as promised by the governor of the state, Mr. Seyi Makinde. The suspects, include Olaoluwa Busayo, Olagoke David,… October 20, 2020 In "News"