Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo has come out to apologise to Nigerian youths on behalf of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration for “not moving faster” enough. This is as the #EndSARS protest continue to gather momentum in all parts of Nigeria and other supporting countries. Professor Osinbajo in a tweet thread from his verified Twitter handle the government has been following the protest and discussions have been in top gear with major stakeholders to attend to the needs of the people. The Vice President explained that several meetings have been held with Senate President Ahmed Lawan, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Chief of Staff to the President, Ibrahim Gambari, the Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu and the National Human Right Commission on the way forward. He acknowledged the brutality of some members of the now disestablished Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) unit of the police, which he described as “unacceptable”. Osinbajo said: “Dear Nigerians, I know that many of you are angry, and understandably so. We could’ve moved faster and for this we are sorry. “I fully understand how many young people feel. Many feel that we have been too silent and have simply not done enough. These feelings of frustration are justified. “There are far too many people who have been brutalised at the hands of the police and this is unacceptable. We must take responsibility for protecting young people, even sometimes from those who are paid to protect them. “Over the past week, we have been following the protests, and I have had a number of discussions with key people in the administration that you deserve to be informed about. Transparency, after all, is a key tenet of government. “Several meetings have been held with: the @SPLawan @femigbaja, the Chief of Staff to @MuhammaduBuhari, Chairman of the @PoliceServiceC2, the IG of @PoliceNG  (IGP), the Executive Secretary of @NHRCNigeria , and governors. “We understand that you want to see action from us and I’m here to tell you that work is ongoing. I chaired a meeting of 36 state governors and the Minister of the FCT (NEC), where we resolved to set up judicial panels of inquiry so we can see justice served, and fast. “The reason being that only state governors, by law, can set up judicial inquiries in their states. The hearings will be public. “With Mr. President’s approval, SARS has been completely disestablished, and none of its former members will feature in any police tactical units. “I am sending my deepest condolences to the families of Jimoh Isiaq, and all those who have lost their lives at the hands of wayward police officers. To those injured, I wish a full and speedy recovery. “We have proposed that each state government set up a Victims’ Support Fund, which @NigeriaGov  will support. This is the least that we can do to compensate for the injustice suffered at the hands of errant officers. “We also understand that the issues that you’re raising are bigger than just SARS. They’re deep and systemic and we’re undertaking comprehensive measures that will revamp the police by addressing issues of welfare, service conditions and training. “On Monday, Mr President also reiterated his commitment to these extensive police reforms. “We will continue to update and engage with you all on these action steps and the ones to come, in the spirit of transparency, so that you can hold us accountable. We are, after all, here to serve you and we owe you a duty to win back your trust. Keep safe. God bless you. – YO,” Osinbajo wrote. Vanguard Says holistic police Reform also in view Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, has said that government is not only committed to full-scale police reform but also ensuring that wrongful acts are duly investigated and prosecuted. The Vice President gave the assurance when approached by State House correspondents at the Presidential… October 12, 2020 In "News" By Boluwaji Obahopo - Lokoja The Centre for Democracy and Development, CDD, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to disband the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, now, said the unit is beyond reforms. Country Director, Idayat Hassan made this known in a statement on Saturday said the youths have spoken through… October 10, 2020 In "News" By Adeola Salawu Nigerians from different walks of life have thrown their weight behind Vice President Yemi Osinbajo many of whom have insisted that the relationship between President Muhammadu Buhari and his deputy cannot be cracked. In diverse statement of support on social media, press statements and interviews, many of… September 25, 2019 In "Features"