Legal  practitioners under the auspices of Concerned Laywers in Cross River State, yesterday, blocked the entrance to Governor Ben Ayade office in Calabar, demanding the appointment of a substantive chief judge for the state. Ayade’s had earlier in the day, sworn-in Justice Effiom Ita  as the Acting Chief Judge of the state  following the failure of the National Judicial Commission, NJC,  to ratify the appointment of Justice Maurice Eneji as substantive Chief Judge of the state. Swearing in Justice Ita at the Executive Council Chambers, Ayade said the decision to swear in Justice  Ita was in accordance with the directives of the  NJC that the next in rank to Eneji in the state’s judiciary be sworn in as the Acting Chief Judge, following the expiration of Eneji’s period on September 3, 2020, after acting for two tenures of three month each. He said: “The period between September 3 and October 3, there has been no one to assign cases in the state and to avoid the situation where  litigants in the state would be denied justice, we had to adhere to the directives of the NJC and in the past two weeks we have been working on it.” Lawyers reject acting chief judge Meanwhile, the lawyers who rejected the swearing in of another Acting Chief Judge, said that they were no longer pleased with the Lacuna that has existed in the state judiciary, which left the position vacant for 49 days without a head. Addressing journalists at the Governor’s office in Calabar,  spokesperson of the group, Effiom Ayi, said it was rather unfortunate that things have turned out to be this way, adding that naturally, no vacuum whatsoever was allowed to exist in the position. According to Ayi, part of their grievances includes the absence of a substantive Chief Judge in the state. The lawyers, who assembled at the Judiciary Headquarters before moving to the governor’s office,  which they blocked  said the absence of a chief judge  had paralysed the effective dispensation of justice in the state. Ayi said: “It has never happened in the history of the state before. Cross River has been enmeshed in a totally avoidable bickering and dirty politics as it concerns the judiciary. As at October 16, 2020, over a 100 cases, including fundamental rights action filed by citizens cannot be assigned or heard. “Letters of administration and probate cannot be granted, recommendations for appointment of judges, senior advocates of Nigeria and notaries public cannot be issued.” Justice Ita’s swearing-in in order — NBA Meanwhile, Nigeria Bar Association, NBA, Chairman, Mr Paul Ebiala, said the swearing in of Justice Ita was in order and has the backing of the association in  the state, adding that some lawyers protesting against the swearing in of new acting chief judge were concerned lawyers and not the NBA as a body. “We have three branches of NBA  in the state:  Calabar, Ikom and Ogoja and none of these branches is against the decision of the governor to carry out the directive of NJC. Those protesting call themselves concerned lawyers and that is not the NBA as a body.” Vanguard THE controversy trailing the refusal of the Cross River State House of Assembly to confirm National Judicial Commission’s nomination of Justice Akon Ikpeme as the substantive Chief Judge of the state has continued to rage. This is as the Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammed, has granted the… June 17, 2020 In "Law & Human Rights" The second time rejection of the nomination of Justice Akon Ikpeme as the substantive Chief Judge of Cross River State by the state House of Assembly, following her second re-nomination by the National Judicial Council, NJC, has received the knocks of lawyers, who called on the National Judicial Council, NJC,… June 11, 2020 In "Law & Human Rights" The Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, has condemned the swearing in by Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State, Tuesday of Justice Maurice Eneji as the acting Chief Judge of the state. March 3, 2020 In "News"