Barcelona have revealed they ended the 2019-2020 financial year with a £97million loss as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. The club ended the year with a revenue of £775m, below their £950m target set in the budget. Before COVID-19 struck, the LaLiga side were forecast a revenue of 1.59 billion (£960m) – which would have set a record for a football club. Barca highlighted the impact of playing behind closed doors as well as the total cancellation of the basketball Euroleague, which resulted in a huge loss of income. Barca players volunteered a 70 percent reduction in wages at the start of the pandemic, lasting for the duration of the state of emergency called on March 14. But pay cuts were always a temporary measure. Barca also stated LaLiga and the Champions League being played beyond June 30, which was the end date of the financial year, also had an impact on the club’s profits and expenses. It was also noted that the failure to win LaLiga, or any trophy last season, also impacted the club’s revenue. The club said the most affected area was commercial with profits standing at £270m – a nine percent drop compared to last year with an overall loss of £72m. The lack of tourists and visitors to the city because of travel restrictions mean fans were unable to buy merchandise from the club shop or take part in stadium tours. Barca’s reported TV revenue was £226m which was down by 17 percent to the previous year with the pandemic causing a £31m drop. The club also said that the transfer market being postponed until later in the summer meant there were fewer movement before the end of the financial year, which impacted the club’s income. Vanguard Barcelona are "boiling" in a "sporting crisis" following their Champions League humiliation, says their former defender Javier Mascherano. Bayern Munich thrashed Barca 8-2 at the Estadio da Luz on Friday, handing the Catalan giants their biggest defeat in Europe and heaviest loss in any competition since 1946. ALSO READ: I wasn’t invited… August 20, 2020 In "Sports" Lionel Messi is "very unlikely" to leave Barcelona before the 2020-21 season, according to Brazilian legend Ronaldo. Sweeping changes have begun at Barca following their humiliating Champions League exit at the hands of Bayern Munich, with head coach Quique Setien and sporting director Eric Abidal replaced by Ronald Koeman and… August 23, 2020 In "Sports" Barcelona cannot afford to sign Inter star Lautaro Martinez, according to former Nerazzurri striker Ivan Zamorano Argentina international Martinez is reportedly a target for Barca and LaLiga rivals Real Madrid after scoring 18 times in 33 appearances this campaign. Inter are rumoured to have already considered Paris Saint-Germain's Edinson Cavani… May 25, 2020 In "Sports"