…Two more to go ilaje, Ese-Odo LGAs Dayo Johnson Akure Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, the candidate of the All Progressive Congress in the last Saturday governorship election in Ondo state has won in 13 of the16 councils results so far declared by INEC. The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Eyitayo Jegede won in three council areas. However, the Zenith Labour Party candidate and the deputy governor Hon Agboola Ajayi has not won in any of the local government council results so far announced by INEC. The results from Ese- Odo and ilaje council areas are yet to be announced. Councils won by Akeredolu include , Owo, Ose, ldanre, Okitipupa, lrele, Ondo West, Ondo East, Odigbo, Akoko South West, Akoko South East, Akoko North East, Akoko North West and ile-Oluji/ Okeigbo. Jegede won only in Akure South, Akure North and lfedore council areas. In the latest result released by the Chief Returning Officer, who is the Vice Chancellor of the University of lbadan, Prof Abel ldowu Olayinka said that Akeredolu of the APC scored 23571 votes in Odigbo council area while Jegede of the PDP polled 9485 and Ajayi of the ZLP 6540 votes. End By Dayo Johnson Akure Candidate of the All Progressive Congress in the Ondo state governorship election, governor Rotimi Akeredolu maintained the lead in the Saturday election. Akeredolu is leading with 53,380 votes in 14 councils so far released by INEC. The incumbent has scored 213,251votes in 14 councils while Eyitayo… October 11, 2020 In "Ondo election" WITH the victory of Ondo State Governor-elect, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, in last Saturday’s election, power will return to the Owo axis of the state when Governor Olusegun Mimiko, quits in February 2017. The last time an Owo person governed the state was in 1983 during the era of late… November 28, 2016 In "News" Collation for the Ondo Governorship election has commenced. Below are collations of some of the results from polling units in the state as compiled from INEC and reports from our correspondents. Akeredolu wins 13 of 16 LGAs results released by INEC Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, the candidate of the All Progressive… October 10, 2020 In "Ondo election"