Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, SAN, on Saturday, directed that both Eko and Marine Bridges in Lagos should be reopened to traffic on Monday, October 19, 2020. According to Fashola the approval for the reopening of the completed first phase of the repairs on the bridges by midnight on Sunday, October 18, was sequel to the report by the contractor handling the projects that the repair works on the first phase was completed 100 per cent. The minister who expressed gratitude to residents for their patience, understanding and cooperation while sections of the bridges were closed, also directed that members of the public should be informed of any restrictions to traffic while work is ongoing on the second phase of the project. Fashola added that while the completed section of the Eko Bridge (Lagos Island Bound) should be reopened to traffic, work should commence immediately on the Alaka bound side of the project. Explaining further on the next phase of repair works on the Bridges, the Director Highways (Bridges and Designs) in the ministry, Engr Emmanuel Adeoye said work was taking off without the need for either partial or complete closure of the bridges, adding that the public would be informed adequately should such a step become necessary. The 1,350-metre Eko Bridge, built in phases between 1965 and 1975, links the Lagos Island to the Mainland. It was closed to traffic in March 2020, in order to replace faulty joints and bearings. But, as a result of COVID-19 lockdown, actual repair works commenced in the first week of June. Work commenced in May on the first of the three phases in which repair works on the Marine Bridge was divided. “The repairs on the bridge, which is part of a network of complex bridges with several loops taking traffic in and out of the Apapa area of Lagos, included: jacketing and skin repairs of the piers, lifting the bridge section deck in order to change the electrometric bearing, milling and placing a new wearing course of asphalt among others. “The repair works on the Eko and Marine Bridges is part of the ongoing Federal Government’s bridge maintenance programme which involves the repairs and rehabilitation of over 37 bridges nationwide with a substantial number already completed while others are at different stages of completion,” Adeoye stated. Vanguard The Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, on Thursday thanked the Lagos State Government and residents for their patience during the ongoing repairs of the Third Mainland Bridge. October 8, 2020 In "News" The Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, disclosed on Tuesday that engineers and scientists in the ministry had been deployed to find out the cause of endless deadly accidents on Kara Bridge on the outskirts of Lagos. July 28, 2020 In "News" Lagos State Government yesterday said planned repairs of Eko Bridge would commence next weekend, explaining however that it would not necessitate total closure but a phased partial closure at each expansion joint location. August 15, 2014 In "News"