The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Governors’ Forum, Friday, congratulated Bayelsa State governor, Duoye Diri over the Court of Appeal ruling setting aside the decision of the Bayelsa State election tribunal which had earlier nullified his declaration as winner of the governorship poll. In a message of solidarity signed by Director General of the forum, CID Maduabum on behalf of the chairman of the forum and governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, the governors described the ruling as an act of God while calling on those still aggrieved at the emergence of the Governor Diri to give peace a chance. “The news of the appellate court victory did not come as a surprise because it has been obvious that the hand of God is clearly on the throne concerning Governor Diri’s leadership of Bayelsa State. “This current affirmation of your mandate, necessary support, prayers, and loyalty given by Bayelsans clears the path for you to settle down in the enormous task of taking the state to greater heights without any further distractions. “We appeal to the Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party, ANDP, and the unseen hands supporting them, to also realise that there must be an end to litigation and it is time to allow Bayelsa Governor to move the state forward by delivering the good governance Bayelsa people crave for and deserve. “We see this victory as a testimony to the gallant efforts already made by the governor since he mounted the saddle a few months ago. “It is now left for Governor Diri to reciprocate the love of the people with the resolve to continue to do more in delivering democratic dividends to the people of Bayelsa State who have not only put their hopes on him but have also given their wholehearted trust and undiluted loyalty. We are certain that you will continue to rise to the occasion in the tradition of PDP Governors. “Your colleagues, governors of the PDP and our great party, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP will continue to support you to succeed,” read the message signed by Director General of the forum, C.I.D Maduabum. Vanguard DESPITE initial violence and tension that rocked Yenogoa, the Bayelsa State capital, Senator Douye Diri was yesterday sworn-in as governor of Bayelsa State alongside his deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpor, at a colourful ceremony held at the Government House. February 15, 2020 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors’ Forum has congratulated Sen. Diri Duruoye and his running mate, Sen. Lawrence Ewhruojakpo, over the Supreme Court judgment on Bayelsa Governorship election. The forum said this in a statement by the Director-General of the Forum, Mr C.I.D.  Maduabum, in Abuja on Thursday. Maduabum said… February 14, 2020 In "News" GOVERNOR Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, yesterday described the emergence of Senator Douye Diri and his deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo as "an act of God", calling on those protesting the ruling of the Supreme Court to sheathe their sword and give peace a chance. February 14, 2020 In "Politics"