Nigeria’s cinema industry has urged the Federal Government to fulfil its promise of assisting the sector to fully recover from COVID-19 setbacks. Patrick Lee, National Chairman, Cinema Exhibitors Association of Nigeria (CEAN), made the call during an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Lagos. He said that members of the association had accumulated bills from unpaid taxes, rents, levies, service charges, salaries while the lockdown of COVID-19 which ravaged the world. The association then called on the federal government to wade into the challenges of cinema operators across the country to enable them remain in business. He said the sector had lost more than N6 billion to the pandemic and had only resumed business early this month. “There has been no help from government so far, only promises, we are calling on the federal government and the Lagos State Government to fulfil their promises. “We want government to help us at this critical period because we are still going through a hard route difficult for us to navigate,” he said. Lee said he was excited by Nigerians’ rekindled interest in visiting cinemas following the resumption of cinemas across the country three weeks ago. He said that the major sales cinemas recorded since its resumption was from the release of Nollywood Actress, Toyin Abraham’s movie “Alakada Reloaded” as sales of N57million had been recorded over that. “Nigerians’ appetite for going to the cinemas has been rekindled because this is the kind of figure we would have expected pre-COVID-19 for the release of ‘Alakada Reloaded’. “People are coming out to support Nollywood, we are confident and happy that our customers are coming back gradually. “By Christmas this year, we should be going back to the pre-COVID-19 levels when everything becomes normal again. “I must also say that we have had supportive landlords,” he said. The CEAN Chairman appreciated their patrons across the country for their cooperation so far as they adhered to all COVID-19 safety protocols within the cinemas. He said no cinema had recorded any case of illnesses within its premises as COVID-19 safety protocols were strictly adhered to. Vanguard News Nigeria By Emmanuel Elebeke The Federal government on Tuesday inaugurated Post-COVID-19 Initiatives Committee for Creative Industry in Nigeria. Inaugurating the committee, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alh. Lai Mohammed said that the establishment of the committee became critical considering the negative impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the nation, and the… May 19, 2020 In "News" Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has announced the resumption of both public and private schools beginning from August 3, 2020 after over three months of lockdown due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. July 4, 2020 In "Education" Curfew now 12 am to 4 am Parks, Cinemas to resume operations at half capacity Bars, nightclubs remain closed By Omeiza Ajayi The federal government has relaxed its emergency restrictions which were put in place in the wake of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic as a way of limiting its… September 3, 2020 In "News"