Reactions have trailed President Muhammadu Buhari’s nationwide broadcast on Thursday night which was aimed at addressing the ongoing #EndSARS protest that has led to the loss of lives and destruction of properties in the country. Most Nigerians condemned the president’s speech while at the same time questioning him for keeping mum over the shootings launched on peaceful protesters at the Lekki Tollgate on Tuesday night which led to the death of some protesters and many critically injured. The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in a statement on Thursday, described the long-awaited address by the President as disappointing and “completely disconnected” from the realities of the tragic occurrences in the country in the last two weeks. Also reacting is Apostle Johnson Suleman who described the speech as ‘insensitive and useless’. He said “Never had a more ‘wasted 12mins’ all my life…insensitive and useless speech..who gave the orders for people to be killed?.what’s d repercussions of such blatant impunity? nobody was fired for lives wasted?.no compensation for victims family?..I wish I can”unwatch” it..” @Unik_Barth questioned “Who order the soldiers out and why did you not apologize for the gunshots of peaceful protester And the death of people” @BankoleDare3 “So of all these thread you make…you did nt for once address wat happened in lekki toll gate bt you cn talk abt palace of Oba nd tribute to the police dt died!! Wow you try nw we knw where we going nw” @LaraSalami1 Nothing was said about the loss of lives during the protest. Ain’t you accountable for every citizen under you?” @engrponletaiwo “I should drop my displeasure about your speech, as a father with children your speech has been condemned.. I regret the day I defend you in front of 100s of people in different occasions that you will be the country savior .. today I realize I was wrong, I won’t forgive myself.” @dittoswitz “Sir, what about SWAT? You didn’t say anything about it! What about Lekki Toll Massacre? You also didn’t say anything about that. Thanks” @BMichael_Nelson “WHO ORDERED THE ARMY TO SHOOT AND KILL THE PEACEFUL AND ARMLESS #LEKKITOLLGATE PROTESTORS? The first step in justice for the 10/20/20 victims. @nassnigeria must #Invoke143 against @MBuhari” @harfistynah “With all this thread, not even anything abt d chaos and Lekki Black Tuesday…..the killing of youth both d elder and all…..like really?” Vanguard News Nigeria  President Muhammadu Buhari has listed the things his government had achieved, their plans for the welfare of Nigerians and security, but said nothing about the Lekki Tollgate massacre of peaceful #EndSARS protesters by soldiers in Lagos on Tuesday. October 22, 2020 In "News" Reactions have started to trail President Muhammadu Buhari's televised speech on the ongoing #EndSARS protests, and the breakdown of law and order nationwide. Nigeria has been rocked by #EndSARS protests carried out by youths protesting police brutality, with calls for President Buhari to address the nation in a live broadcast.… October 22, 2020 In "News" Business outlets shut down IYC condemn Lekki Tollgate killings By Samuel Oyadongha - Yenagoa Amidst the threat of the resumption of #EndSARS protest in Yenagoa, security was reinforced around banks in the state capital. Also, some business outlets, especially supermarkets were temporarily shut down in the early hours of the… October 22, 2020 In "News"