 Helen Oritsejafor in the new book You Too Can Become A Success, the author, Mama Helen Oritsejafor, illuminates the realities of living the best life yet by adhering to renewing your mindset, committing to the standards of perseverance, excellence and hard work, while exercising a profoundly rejuvenating relationship with God. These are contained in the new book to schedule to be launched on October 10, 2020. In the book, she explained the realities of living the best life by adhering to the renewal of mindset, committing to the standards of perseverance, excellence and hard work, while exercising a profoundly rejuvenating relationship with God. Mama Helen called for re-strategizing and re-structuring before reopening of businesses and organizations globally, in a bid to create riveting ideas and tactics that would keep the business and organizations functioning properly in order to avoid a downfall. She said it is important for solid strategic measures to be adopted, as the growth, sustainability and effective functionality of the establishment is key.  “This book serves as one of the necessities to discover the secrets of succeeding above all odds and standing tall at the end of it all”.  She said the  book would be launched immediately after the online quarterly masterclass of the 6th edition of the CEOs Company Mentorship Class, tagged: “Overcoming the Effects of COVID-19 on Business”. “The class mentored by the author aims to close the knowledge gap for organizations and businesses in order to survive the current global economic crisis”.  With the challenges of life, it becomes hard for most individuals to perceive themselves as candidates of success. The ability to succeed lies deep within everyone, and can only be activated with a change of perspective about obstacles. These are contained in a book written by Mama Helen Oritsejafor, titled:… October 4, 2020 In "News" Determined to ensure the existence of more joyful lifelong marital relationships, top-notch industrialist, inspirator, co-pastor of Word of Life Bible Church, and author Reverend Helen Oritsejafor, hit the city of Lagos, with the intention to do just with her international book signing tour recently released, “Joyfully Together: Keys to Enjoying… March 23, 2020 In "News" Apparently worried with the present problems in marriages and relationships, wife of former CAN president and co-pastor of Word of Life Bible Church, Mama Helen Oritsejafor, is set to hit the city of Lagos,  with her global book signing tour for her recently released book “Joyfully Together: Keys to Enjoying… February 28, 2020 In "News"