Amid the current situation in the country,  notable gospel artistes and ministers across the country will, today, hold an online praise worship and prayer session on the platform of ‘Praise in Unusual Times,’ an interdenominational/ecumenical praise worship and prayers initiative. The event holding on Zoom and Youtube 7.30pm today, October 23, according to the organisers, is aimed at bringing down the power of God on the country and situations therein. Among the event’s sponsors and performing ministers are Nathaniel Bassey, Tope Alabi, Panam Percy Paul, Chioma Jesus, Prosper Ochimana, Obiora Obiwon, Beejay Sax, Osinachi Nwachukwu, Bukola Bekes and Chukwuemeka. Among supporting, ministers of God are Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, Pastor Emmanuel Dania and Monsignor Paschal Nwaezeapu. Inviting all Nigerians to the Praise in Unusual Times free event, the group said in a statement: “This event is being convened on the premise of 2nd Chronicles 7:14. “It says ‘If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land’. “You can join us on Zoom via ID: 814 34837923 and Password: Praise, or on YouTube via https://youtu.be/bJ5eODZwds4.” VANGUARD THE 2015 edition of the annual gospel concert, The Experience, would hold today with top gospel artiste, Don Moen and other renowned gospel ministers leading over 700,000 people and millions all around the world in praise and worship. December 3, 2015 In "News" THE General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye with his wife, Pastor (Mrs) Foluke Adeboye in tow, chose the midnight hour on February 28 to visit the historic 76 Hours Marathon Messiah Praise designed to praise God in diverse ways to mark his… March 18, 2018 In "Worship" Gospel songstress Lara George among others has been billed to headline the 2018 Just Worship organised by the Shepherdhill Baptist Church. October 27, 2018 In "Woman's Own"