As Nigeria marks her 60th independence anniversary,  Senator Annie Okonkwo has urged that unity and peace remain the vehicle for national development. The Senator, who represented Anambra Central in Senate also disclosed that with peace and unity, the Federal Government will remain focused and committed to promoting sound economic management, good governance, fostering economic and social development without distractions. As Nigeria celebrates 60 years as an independent nation, “I call on those involved in all acts of ethnic, communal and other forms of intra-state conflicts to cease fire and channel their strengths on things that will profit us as a nation. “The current spate of insecurity has no doubt affected Nigeria as a nation giving room for the emergence of chronic conditions of poverty, unemployment, and inequality in the country.” Speaking further, Okonkwo called on the Federal Government led by President Muhammadu Buhari to focus on putting an end to insecurity issue facing the country which has furthermore, affected the peace and unity of Nigerians to live together. VANGUARD ...Commend Nigerians For Sustaining National Unity By Tordue Salem, Abuja The Minority Caucus of the House of Representatives has tasked leaders at all levels in the country, to be more committed to public service and the development of the country. The Caucus, also congratulated Nigerians for their steadfastness as the… September 30, 2020 In "News" Ahead of Nigeria's 60th independence anniversary, the National Inter-Faith and Religious Organization for Peace (NIFROP) has commenced prayer and fasting for President Muhammadu Buhari and the entire country. At its meeting on Tuesday at the Unity Fountain, Abuja, the group described October 1st as a "day of convenant" which marked the… September 23, 2020 In "News" The wife of the President Mrs Aisha Buhari, has urged Nigerian women to champion unity as a means of national development among different ethic groups in Nigeria. October 1, 2017 In "News"