The National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, has appealed to all stakeholders in Ondo State to provide adequate security for Corps Members that will be engaged as polling officials in the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the state. In a statement, the Scheme’s Director-General, Brig.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, noted that Corps Members were apolitical, adding that their focus lay on contributing their quota towards national development. He, therefore, assured that the youth on national service would perform the election duties with a high sense of responsibility and neutrality. but added that all stakeholders must contribute towards giving them maximum protection. Ibrahim further urged residents of the State to tap from the potentials of Corps Members for socio-economic development, adding that their knowledge, loyalty and dedication to duty were of immense benefit. “I want to plead with the good people of Ondo State to protect my Corps Members. We want to ensure that our Corps Members are safe as we look forward to a hitch-free election,” the DG said. To the Corps members that will serve as election officials, Ibrahim urged them to abide by the electoral laws, be security conscious and avoid infractions. “You must abide by the electoral laws. If you run foul of the law NYSC will not be there for you. “Be security conscious, don’t cut corners and use only the vehicles accredited by INEC,” the DG said. Vanguard News Nigeria. Brig. Gen. Sule Kazaure, the Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has urged corps members to shun partisan politics as the 2019 general elections draw near. November 8, 2018 In "News" Director-General of NYSC, Brig Gen. Sule Zakari Kazaure, has vowed to protect lives and properties of corps members during their national service and during elections. Kazaure who made this assertion in-view of governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states later this year said, never again will corps members die in… May 12, 2016 In "Education" The Director-General, National Youth Service Corps, Brig.-Gen. Suleiman Kazaure, has urged corps members to shun any form of inducement from politicians in the forthcoming governorship election in Ondo State. November 22, 2016 In "News"