The Police Command in Oyo State has debunked the reported shooting of EndSARS protesters in Ogbomoso by its personnel. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some youths had, on Saturday, stormed major streets in Ogbomoso to demand the ban of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), an arm of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). One of the protesters was said to have been shot by the police in the process. An eyewitness told NAN that the victim was shot in the leg by the police when the protesters reached Owode police station in Ogbomoso. The witness said that the man was shot, as the policemen were trying to ensure that the station was not attacked by the protesters. He added that the victim had been rushed to an undisclosed hospital in the town. However, the Public Relations Officer of the command, SP Olugbenga Fadeyi, in a statement issued in Ibadan on Saturday, said that the police did not fire a single shot at any protester. Fadeyi said that the protesters were allowed to express their grievances for over one hour. “According to the information I gathered from the officers monitoring the protest, the police did not fire shot at anybody. “The protesters were allowed for over one hour to carry out their protest and express their grievances until when some of them wanted to forcefully enter the police station with a view to attacking it. “The police only fired teargas to disperse the protesters; they did not fire shot at anybody as widely reported,’’ Fadeyi said. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. By Adeola Badru The Oyo State Police Command, Eleyele, Ibadan, has denied the widely circulated social media report that the police allegedly shot and killed one of the protesters of ENDSARS protest in Ogbomoso on Saturday. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Nwachukwu Enwonwu, made the clarification, in… October 10, 2020 In "News" An unidentified man has been allegedly killed while another injured by unidentified police in Ogbomosho, Oyo state during the #EndSARs protest rocking Nigeria. An eyewitness at the scene confirmed the incident to Vanguard. More details to follow ALSO READ: #EndSARS protesters vandalise Police post in Ivory, Ogun (VIDEO) A peaceful… October 10, 2020 In "News" Shina Abubakar - Osogbo Protesters in Iwo, Osun State on Saturday storm Oluwo's Palace, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi seeking an end to the brutality of operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. The youths, who sought an end to the SARS unit, were disappointed that the monarch was not in the palace… October 10, 2020 In "News"