Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, Sunday, debunked viral reports on the killing of a 22-year-old resident of Ughelli in Ughelli North local government area, Joshua Ambrose by operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS at Ughelli. The incident which caused apprehension in the town, also lead to the attack of am off-duty SARS operative at the Ughelli Central garage axis of Ughelli. Reacting to the incident on his Twitter handle @fkeyamo, the minister who is from the state, said: “I just spoke with both the Commissioner of Police, Delta State and the Area Commander in Ughelli where the unfortunate incident involving a young man and the police which took place yesterday (Saturday). “I also spoke with Ochuko, the victim’s brother. All of them said the victim is alive and receiving treatment. “Whilst I totally condemn the extra-judicial killings by SARS and other police outfits against defenseless citizens and call for comprehensive reforms and overhaul of the system, some facts of this case are as follows; The outfit involved in this case is called Operation Delta Safe and not SARS. “The victim was not shot as confirmed by his brother but fell out of the Police vehicle when being taken to the station after the arrest. The brother said he was pushed; the police said he jumped “This is a picture of the victim in hospital this morning, showing injuries from the fall. The police stopped to pick him up after the fall, but an angry mob had already gathered and the police fled and left the victim. A Good Samaritan picked him and took him to hospital. Finally, I wish to appeal to the youths in Ughelli not to resort to violence and/or destruction of lives and properties. I am on top of this matter and though the victim is alive, I will be urging the authorities to still investigate the conduct of the police in this matter.” Vanguard By Nwafor Sunday The widespread canard that the operations of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), in Delta state, assaulted and killed a young man in the state, has been proved erroneous, as the Minister of State, Labour & Employment, Festus Keyamo, SAN, confirmed the incident to Vanguard. Keyamo who said he… October 4, 2020 In "News" By David Royal Nigerian music star, Wizkid on Sunday blasted the President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari for wishing US President, Donald Trump and his wife, Melania, quick and full recovery from Covid-19. In a tweet posted via his Twitter page, the music star told Buhari to leave Donald Trump alone… October 4, 2020 In "News" UGHELLI—Two suspected members of a three-man robbery gang were, yesterday, killed by a combined team of soldiers and policemen drafted from the Ughelli ‘A’ Division, during a failed robbery operation at Daniel Umukoro Street, Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State. January 15, 2018 In "News"