In line with its commitment to offer premium content, StarTimes has collaborated with a notable Nollywood production company, Big Idea Mediaworks, to launch PBO TV, a 24-hour entertainment channel dedicated to top-rated Nollywood movies, series, sitcoms, music and late-night comedy shows. PBO TV is on basic bouquet at N1700 monthly on channel 184 and smart bouquet at N2200 monthly on channel 017, the same bouquets housing recently launched Hollywood movie channel, TNT Africa. Going on-air from October 1 to mark Nigeria’s 60th independence, PBO TV will air 12 hours of non-stop Nollywood blockbuster movies and series, with the remaining half of the day set aside for general entertainment. The channel promises to be explosive with top-rated Nollywood stars on display. Among the movies showing in October are June featuring Uche Jombo, Vector Tha Viper, Chinyere Wilfred, Empress Njamah; Mad About You featuring Blossom Chukwujekwu, Linda Osifo and Annie Macaulay Idibia; Being Annabel featuring Oma Amadi, Ken Erics and Desmond Elliot; and drama series including Tough Love featuring Nkem Owo, Sola Sobowale, Timini Egbuson and Sharon Ooja; Life of a Single Mom, a series featuring Mofe Duncan, Gregory Ojefua and Mercy Macjoe, among others. VANGUARD By Ayo Onikoyi Affordable pay-TV platform, StarTimes has expanded its entertainment offering by introducing Hollywood movie channel, TNT Africa and, the recent season of popular comedy series, Jenifa’s Diary. TNT Africa is available on StarTimes’ Basic Bouquet on channel 047 and Smart Bouquet on channel 186. Basic Bouquet is N1700… September 19, 2020 In "News" Subscribers of StarTimes have started enjoying a reduced subscription rate on its’ classic bouquet which took effect on Saturday, September 1. The Pay TV company had announced the reduction of its classic bouquet price from N2,600 to N1,900 in August, effective September 1, with an inclusion of 4 new premium… September 5, 2018 In "News" In fulfilment of its promise in ensuring  that customers receive the best possible access to great entertainment, leading digital Pay TV Company, StarTimes have announced the listing of ST Nollywood Plus. May 20, 2018 In "Entertainment"