Lionel Messi can be convinced to stay at FC Barcelona beyond this season, in spite of interest from Manchester City, his former teammate Luis Suarez says. The Barca captain tried to force his way out of the club in the close season, but he later agreed to stay until his contract ends in June 2021. The 33-year-old Argentina forward revealed his frustrations with the club’s board and a lack of planning, but said he would give his all this season. Messi, FC Barcelona’s all-time top goalscorer, is free to negotiate with other clubs from January, including Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City, who are interested in luring him to Manchester. “Maybe there’s the possibility of him playing for another club, but if he feels comfortable and happy, and a new board comes in, he will want to stay at the club,” Atletico Madrid striker Suarez said. “As a friend, I will be happy if things go well for him (at Barca), but also if he goes to another club.” FC Barcelona president Josep Maria Bartomeu has called club elections for March 2021. But he could be forced out sooner, with a no confidence vote set to be launched against him and the board. Messi will have no shortage of suitors if he decides to leave Camp Nou. Manchester City’s chief operating officer Omar Berrada left the door open for the striker in an interview. “It’s almost impossible to guess what will happen next summer,” said Berrada. “Messi is a generational talent. He’s the best player in the world and probably an exception to potential investments that we’d do out of the ordinary. “For every single position we have to be prepared, because there are so many things that can happen. ”But at the same time I think we have the financial strength and ability to make that investment (for a striker), when required.” [Reuters/NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Lionel Messi can be convinced to stay at FC Barcelona beyond this season, in spite of interest from Manchester City, his former team mate Luis Suarez says. The Barca captain tried to force his way out of the club in the close season, but he later agreed to stay until… October 10, 2020 In "Sports" Barcelona star Lionel Messi will be sidelined for the next three weeks due to a groin strain, dealing a huge blow to his club and country. September 22, 2016 In "Sports" Barcelona striker Luis Suarez hopes teammate Lionel Messi will follow his lead by signing a long-term contract to see out the remainder of his prime years at the Camp Nou. December 19, 2016 In "News"