President Muhammadu Buhari said he had ordered the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to reform the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, investigate cases of infractions and bring offenders to justice. This is coming in the wake of nationwide outcry and protests by youths and mothers for the unit to be scrapped. The movement against SARS had been trending under the slogan #ENDSARS, with a call for total scrapping of the unit. Vanguard had also reported several instances of reformations of the police unit, with one such reformation culminating in the shutting down, in July, of all the tactical squads’ state offices. However, in a statement posted on the President’s Twitter handle, on Friday, he said he had been meeting with the IGP, and getting briefed on the situation. President Buhari said: “I met again with the IGP tonight. Our determination to reform the police should never be in doubt. “I am being briefed regularly on the reform efforts ongoing to end police brutality and unethical conduct, and ensure that the Police are fully accountable to the people. “The IG already has my firm instructions to conclusively address the concerns of Nigerians regarding these excesses and ensure erring personnel are brought to justice. “I appeal for patience & calm, even as Nigerians freely exercise their right to peacefully make their views known. “The vast majority of men and women of the Nigeria Police Force are patriotic and committed to protecting the lives and livelihoods of Nigerians, and we will continue to support them to do their job.” This is the tweet: I met again with the IGP tonight. Our determination to reform the police should never be in doubt. I am being briefed regularly on the reform efforts ongoing to end police brutality and unethical conduct, and ensure that the Police are fully accountable to the people. pic.twitter.com/yoLoZt7Et9 — Muhammadu Buhari (@MBuhari) October 9, 2020   Senator Gbenga Ashafa, representing Lagos East Senatorial District has said the appointment of former Inspector General of Police, Musiliu Smith will bring about the necessary reforms needed to transform the Nigeria Police Service Commission. July 18, 2018 In "News" …Meets IGP over reforms in police By Johnbosco Agbakwuru VICE President Yemi Osinbajo, Sunday expressed his anger over the arrests and brutal killing of young Nigerians by the Police. The Vice President, who met with the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu told the police boss to carry out… October 4, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday in Abuja directed relevant authorities to work out modalities for the implementation of the report of the Presidential Panel on the Reform of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), within three months. June 3, 2019 In "News"