THE United Kingdom High Commission in Nigeria on Wednesday said it has shut down its centers in Nigeria for the next 48 hours beginning from today (Wednesday) due to the ongoing nationwide protest in the country. It also stated that its TLS contact visa application centers in Nigeria are currently closed. Though like its American counterpart, the UK High Commission failed to speak up on last night attacks on defenseless protesters in Lekki, Lagos State, the move by the commission is coming a few hours after the United State government did same for its Lagos Consulate. The commission in a brief statement on its twitter handle, @UKinNigeria, also asked applicants with appointments for Wednesday and Thursday, to reschedule their appointments from Monday, October 26th. The statement reads: “Due to the ongoing protest in Nigeria and for the safety of both staff and applicants, our Nigeria centres will be closed for 48 hours at a minimum. “For applicants with booked appointments within this period, please you will need to reschedule your appointment for next week, from 26th October 2020. “We will continue to post regular updates on this page, so please keep checking back for the latest information on reopening. We sincerely apologise for the inconvenience and thank you for your understanding.” Vanguard Perez Brisibe THE United States Government, Tuesday said it is shutting down it's embassy in Lagos State for two days owing to the ongoing nationwide protest in the country. It also warned it's citizens in Nigeria to be wary of the protest in the country by being vigilante and avoid… October 20, 2020 In "SARS Update" Urges citizens to avoid protests areas By Emmanuel Elebeke The United State Government on Tuesday issued a security alert over the ongoing #EndSARS protest in Nigeria and urged all its citizens to avoid areas around protests and demonstrations and to check local media for updates and traffic In a statement… October 20, 2020 In "SARS Update" ... As CSO petitions US, UK, EU to slam visa ban on Oyo Police CP, family members  ... Davido meets IGP over police brutality against civilians  By Luminous Jannamike The mass action against the extrajudicial activities of the Nigeria Police Force continued in Abuja with a new twist to the… October 12, 2020 In "SARS Update"