China on Monday accused the United States (US) of “peddling arms” and “interfering” in other countries’ affairs after Washington threatened sanctions against any nation taking advantage of the end of a UN ban to sell weapons to Iran. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned against anyone supplying arms to the Islamic republic after Tehran said a longstanding UN embargo against such deals had expired. China’s foreign ministry on Monday said Pompeo’s remarks were “utterly unjustifiable.” “It is the US that peddles arms and ammunition everywhere, uses military trade to serve geopolitical interests, and even openly interferes in the internal affairs of other countries,” foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters. Asked if China would now sell arms to Iran, Zhao did not directly address the issue but said Beijing would “handle military trade in accordance with its military export policy and its international obligations”. The embargo on the sale of conventional arms to Iran was due to begin expiring progressively from October 18 under terms of the UN resolution that confirmed the 2015 nuclear deal between Tehran and world powers. Tehran, which can now purchase weapons from Russia, China and elsewhere, has hailed the expiration as a diplomatic victory over its arch enemy the United States, which had tried to maintain an indefinite freeze on arms sales. President Donald Trump withdrew the United States from the nuclear deal in 2018 and has unilaterally begun reimposing sanctions on Iran. China, Iran’s primary trading partner, has long accused the United States of exacerbating tensions over Iran’s weapons programme by pulling out of the deal. Iran’s foreign minister travelled to Beijing this month for talks spanning trade and defence. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Iran on Monday said it is more inclined to sell weapons rather than buy them, after it announced the end of a longstanding UN conventional arms embargo. Tehran said the ban imposed more than a decade ago was lifted "automatically" as of Sunday, based on the terms of a 2015… October 19, 2020 In "Foreign" Iran on Saturday hailed a UN Security Council vote rejecting a US bid to extend an arms embargo on the Islamic republic, saying its foe has "never been so isolated". President Hassan Rouhani said the United States had failed to kill off what he called the "half alive" 2015 deal… August 15, 2020 In "Foreign" China on Monday sanctioned 11 US politicians and heads of organizations in retaliation for the United States imposing sanctions on Hong Kong officials last week. The sanctioned US individuals include senators Marco Rubio, Josh Hawley and Ted Cruz, who had been previously criticized by Beijing, as well as heads of agencies… August 11, 2020 In "Foreign"