The Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps, LAGESC has expressed displeasure over what it described as deliberate infractions of environmental laws by some Lagosians, threatening to prosecute erring residents accordingly. To this end, it revealed that it had served over 30 buildings abatement notices on account of infractions such as distressed septic tanks, open discharge of effluent and unkempt general surrounding. Corps Marshal of the Agency, CP Gbemisola Akinpelu (rtd) who made the disclosure yesterday at the Agency’s Command headquarters, in  Bolade-Oshodi area of Lagos, disclosed that affected buildings were located in Oko-Oba, Agege, Jakande estate Ejigbo and Oshodi areas of Lagos. According to her  : “Through its Monitoring Team and petitions from concerned citizens, the Agency recently  served  three  blocks of flats at the Millennium Housing Estate, Oko-Oba, Agege , abatement notices for contravening  environmental infractions  such as defective plumbing works, vegetal nuisance, open discharge of effluent,  distressed septic tanks, , inappropriate discharge of waste water   among others. “In the same vein, blocks of flats at Jakande Estate, Ejigbo,  were also served  notices on related environmental infractions. “The Agency also carried out its operational activities around Olaolu and  Igbeyin Adun streets in Oshodi/Isolo Local Government Area of the state , for other environmental contraventions, while four  buildings/complex including a hotel around Egbeda-Akonwonjo area of the State were  issued  abatement notices on account of erecting permanent slabs on public drains with no provision for ease of desilting, a development causing disruption of free flow of water in the area, thereby  resulting into flooding. “The present administration of Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu is poised at ensuring a healthy and cleaner environment and as such, the Agency will continue to ensure necessary compliance and enforcement of all environmental laws across the nooks and crannies of the State”. The exercise according to her was still ongoing and would be extended to  gated estates and other areas of the State, stressing that all environmental infractions would  not be tolerated by the agency . She therefore,  admonished Lagosians to adhere to the directives issued by the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, urging residents to adopt an attitudinal change by refraining from dumping refuse in drainage channels as well as avoid  erecting structures on drainage alignments, emphasizing that “all residents owe the state a duty to support the efforts of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu led administration to ensure that expected heavy rainfall and release of dam water do not wreak havoc in any part of the state”. Vanguard Lagos State government may have washed its hands off the travails of those affected by the flood that resulted from last week persistent rainfall, warning those living in flood plains to relocate to safer places. July 2, 2012 In "News" The Lagos State Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences Task force has arrested 26 persons suspected to be cultists in different parts of the state. April 28, 2019 In "News" No fewer than 26 dreaded cultists suspected to be members of the dreaded cult group known as ‘’Awawa Boys’’ have been arrested in Agege and 64 miscreants were also arrested at Oshodi areas of Lagos State. April 28, 2019 In "News"