Looting and vandalization of government properties continued Monday unchecked in Adamawa state on the second day of the curfew imposed on the state. This is even as the  state police command confirmed the arrest of over 120 suspects who allegedly took advantage of the #EndSARS protests to vandalize and loot public and private properties in different parts of the State. The hoodlums have taken advantage of the curfew imposed across the 21 local government areas in the state to loot and vandalize  public and private structures. The police spokesman in the state Suleiman Nguroje told newsmen in an  interview Monday that the arrest of suspects is on going. He said, ‘’some items recovered from the hoodlums include looted- tractors, farm implements, and other equipment stolen. ‘’ We are yet to establish the casualty figures, though some were recorded, even as investigation is  still ongoing” Nguroje, a Deputy Superintendent of police (DSP)  said, “ For now over 120  suspects were arrested by the Police  and other security sister organizations for various criminal offenses ranging from arson,  stealing, malicious damage to property and assault before and after the statewide curfew imposed by the Governor, Ahmadu Fintiri  to restore law and order in Adamawa,” he stated. He explained that after police investigation, the government will prosecute  these suspects with prima facie cases, who allegedly took advantage of the #EndSARS protests to destroy and loot public and private properties in different parts of the State. To this end, the police spokesman called on  the  people of the state  to maintain peace, law, and order in their respective communities, pledging the commitment of the command to uphold the rule of law at all times. Some government organisations attacked  and vandalised include Adamawa State Primary Health Care Development Agency,Adamawa and Taraba Customs and Excise headquarter , Red Cross Secretariat , Agric store and  Mayo Belwa local government secretariat. Vanguard News Nigeria By Marie-Therese Nanlong Hoodlums who took advantage of the #ENDSARS protest in Plateau State to loot public and private premises in the Jos and Bukuru metropolis have been given a grace period of three days to return all looted items to the nearest local government office in the State before… October 26, 2020 In "News" By Shina Abubakar, Osogbo Residents in Osun have deserted major streets in different communities of the state has joint security personnel enforces the curfew imposed on the state. This is as youths in some communities in Osogbo helped police to arrest some hoodlums who looted government and private properties in… October 25, 2020 In "News" The Special Military Task Force, Operation Safe Haven (OPSH),maintaining peace in Plateau has arrested 123 suspects for vandalising and looting items from private businesses and government properties in Jos. The Commander of the task force, Maj.-Gen. Chukwuemeka Okonkwo, presented the suspects to newsmen on Sunday in Jos. Okonkwo said that… October 25, 2020 In "News"