The Federal Government, Thursday, disclosed that it is working to make the cost for conversion of cars to run on autogas, affordable to all Nigerians. In a statement in Abuja, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, also stated that some cars in the president’s fleet would soon be converted to run on autogas, while some government official vehicles were already being converted. Sylva noted that the Federal Government was intensifying efforts to provide Nigerians with autogas to temper the effects of rising costs of Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, also known as petrol, in line with President Muhammmadu Buhari’s commitment to ushering in the epoch of gas as a better fuel for Nigerians. He expressed satisfaction with the conversion process thus far, and charged conversion centers to make vehicle and user safety a priority during the process. Also speaking, Executive Secretary of the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, PPPRA, Mr. Abdulkadir Saidu, stated that the government would ensure that autogas is made available to people all over the country. He said: “Nigerians can be rest assured of the government’s undying commitment to providing a cheaper and cleaner alternative to Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, as prices have been on an upward climb in recent months following the deregulation of the downstream sector. “Aside from the fact that autogas is cheaper, we are also concerned about making the conversion of cars affordable so that Nigerians can indeed reap the advantage of this new policy.” The PPPRA boss also stated that some filling stations across the country were already keying into the plan by adding autogas dispensers to their stations. He urged Nigerians to embrace autogas, as gas-powered vehicles are cheaper and environmentally friendly than any other fuel available on the market today. He also noted that the majority of vehicles built in the last two decades were well-suited to conversion for dual fuel applications, therefore safe for all Nigerians willing to convert their vehicles. Vanguard Liquefied Petroleum gas (LPG),is a fossil fuel, like oil and natural gas. It can be refined from oil and natural gas the same way gasoline is refined from crude oil. While most energy companies are not focused on LP gases, they produce them nonetheless because they are a byproduct of… April 1, 2014 In "Sweet Crude" By Udeme Akpan & Sebastine Obasi With its 202 trillion standard cubic feet of gas reserves, many global stakeholders had expected Nigeria to harness adequate gas for domestic use and export before 2020 for many reasons. First, its gas reserves are in excess of oil, estimated at 37 billion barrels.… March 3, 2020 In "Energy" By Michael Eboh The Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR, yesterday, said it has commenced the audit of petrol retail outlets across the country, and has ordered 9,000 petrol stations across the country to immediately commence the upgrade of their facilities to allow them dispense gas to vehicles for transportation. This… September 4, 2020 In "News"