Following the engagement with all stakeholders and setting up mechanisms for observing the COVID-19 protocols, the Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, has directed the re-opening of all public and private primary and secondary schools across the state from 30th October 2020. By this directive, the Governor’s Director of Press and Public Affairs, MAkut Macham in a statement said schools are to resume academic activities for 3rd term and ensure they operate within the guidelines issued by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 for the safety of students and teachers. All grade six students are to resume schools between 19th-23rd October to prepare for the First School Leaving Certificate and National Common Entrance Examinations even as all heads of public and private schools with huge population are also advised to consider staggered school attendance to avoid going against COVID-19 protocols relating to social distancing. He stressed, “Already, various training and engagements have been held to orientate school principals and teachers on basic operational requirements. “Similarly, the management of schools have been mandated to clean, fumigate and re-arrange the school environment preparatory to the resumption. In the meantime, arrangements are ongoing to facilitate the resumption of tertiary institutions in the State.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau said the State Government had spent about N366.5 million to combat the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. Lalong disclosed this on Friday at a stakeholders meeting with traditional leaders at Government House, Jos, to enlighten residents on the prevalance of COVID-19 in the state. “In… September 18, 2020 In "News" As Covid-19 cases in Plateau State rise to 17, with one discharged, State Governor, Simon Lalong is asking citizens of the State not to panic, but to continue to strictly adhere to regulations put in place to contain the disease and curtail community spread. May 10, 2020 In "News" When the pressure persisted, Governor Simon Bako Lalong succumbed.  He said on his declaration, “I am yielding to pressure to declare to re-contest Governorship election in Plateau State.  I know several groups have endorsed me, some have printed posters as a sign of their support…” September 25, 2018 In "News"