Delta state chapter of African Action Congress (AAC) has condemned the nomination of Mrs Lauretta Onochie as a National Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) by President Muhammadu Buhari, noting that  Ms Onochie is a card carrying member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and a social media aide to the President. The party in a statement signed by its Public Relation officer Mr. Eworise Tsola said the ” nomination undermines the neutrality of INEC and violates one of the fundamental elements of the democratic process – the transparent impartiality of the electoral umpire. These are times of social tempest and the more reason to strengthen institutions. “The temporary advantage of incumbency should not be exercised to the detriment of the deeper duty to build resilient democratic institutions. “This nomination is wrong, misguided and amoral and should be withdrawn immediately in order to protect  our electoral institution”. …Says it negates Buhari’s promised credible election legacy By Dirisu Yakubu - Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has described President Muhammadu Buhari’s appointment of his Special Assistant on social media, Lauretta Onochie, a card-carrying member of the All Progressives Congress, APC, as national commissioner in the Independent National Electoral… October 13, 2020 In "News" …Says it negates Buhari’s promised credible election legacy By Dirisu Yakubu The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has described President Muhammadu Buhari’s appointment of his Special Assistant on social media, Lauretta Onochie, a card-carrying member of the All Progressives Congress, APC, as national commissioner in the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC,… October 13, 2020 In "News" By Joseph Erunke, Abuja Some civil society groups, Thursday, described the nomination of Ms Lauretta Onochie by President Muhammadu Buhari as National Commissioner in the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, as flagrant disrespect to the sanctity of the Nigerian Constitution. The non-governmental organisations actively involved in the country's political process,… October 15, 2020 In "News"