British inflation rose to 0.5 per cent in September, official data showed Wednesday, as the UK government ended a meals discount scheme boosting the restaurant sector battered by the coronavirus pandemic. The annual inflation rate, as measured by the UK’s Consumer Prices Index, increased from a near five-year low of 0.2 percent in August. The ONS said that along with transport costs, “restaurant and cafe prices, following the end of the Eat Out to Help Out scheme, made the largest upward contributions” to inflation in September. The “Eat Out to Help Out” incentive in August saw the UK government subsidising meals eaten also in pubs. Britons enjoyed more than 100 million meals under the discount scheme, according to recent data. Some analysts have argued that the measure may have fuelled cases of coronavirus. Britain has suffered Europe’s worst death toll from Covid-19, with nearly 44,000 deaths, while the pandemic has caused the country’s deepest recession on record. The extent of the financial cost was updated in separate official data Wednesday revealing that UK national debt last month hit a record £2.06 trillion ($2.65 trillion, 2.23 trillion euros) That pushed state borrowing up to 103.5 percent of Britain’s annual gross domestic product, the ONS said. The government borrowed £36.1 billion in September — £28.4 billion more than one year earlier. With borrowing ballooning amid continued virus uncertainty, the UK Treasury on Wednesday said it was scrapping a multi-year spending review, replacing it with a one-year plan that will be outlined in November. “In the current environment it’s essential that we provide certainty,” finance minister Rishi Sunak said in a statement. “So we’ll be doing that for departments and all of the nations of the United Kingdom by setting budgets for next year,” he said, adding that long-term investments in the state-run health service, schools and infrastructure projects would remain. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. AFTER 18 months of steady decline, Nigeria’s inflation rate resumed upward trajectory in August, which persisted in September. The reversal was driven by higher food prices, triggered by shortage of food supply across the country owing to the farmers/herdsmen crisis and recent flooding in some food producing areas. November 12, 2018 In "Business" Some financial experts on Wednesday called on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to sustain the current economic growth with expansionary monetary and fiscal policies to achieve a single-digit inflation rate. October 18, 2017 In "News" Please let us start by debunking certain myths in our country. First, “Nigeria is an oil rich country.” False, because oil revenue per person per annum in Nigeria in 2013 when crude oil prices averaged over US$100 per barrel was US$520. In Qatar and Kuwait, it was US$31,000 and US$27,000… April 14, 2018 In "For the record"