Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, has asked Igbo to ignore the call to leave Yorubaland. In a statement last night, Soyinka said: “As for our brother and sister Igbo, I hope they have learnt to ignore the toxic under which some Nigerian imbaciles seek to drown the nation.” The statement was apparent in response to the claim by some Yoruba elements that the mayhem that saw some national and personal assets in Lagos being destroyed in the wake of #EndSARS protests was masterminded by some Igbo youths. In the Soyinka statement titled,  ‘Identity Thieves on the Rampage’, the National Laureate wrote: “Undoubtedly in order to promote the video clip of an ethnic revanchist calling on Igbo to leave Yoruba land, this same lunatic fringe has exhumed, and embarked on circulating an ancient fabrication – several years mouldering in the grave – once attributed to me and vigorously denounced. “That statement impudently expounds, as my utterance, what the Hausa want, what the Yoruba want, and what the Igbo want. Such an attribution – let me once again reiterate – is the work of sick, cowardly minds that are ashamed, or lack the courage, as the saying goes, “to answer their fathers’ names.” At least the current ethnic rabble-rouser has the courage of his convictions, not so the sick brigade of identity thieves. “Normally, one should totally ignore the social dregs. However, in the present atmosphere where FAKE NEWS is so easily swallowed and acted upon without reflection, I feel once again obliged to denounce this recurrent obscenity. As for our brother and sister Igbo, I hope they have learnt to ignore the toxic bilge under which some Nigerian imbeciles seek to drown the nation. “It is time also, I believe, to also enter the following admonition: one cannot continue to monitor and respond to the concoctions of these addicts of falsehood, and their assiduous promoters who have yet to learn to wipe the filth off their tablets. The patrons of social platforms should develop the art of discrimination. Some attributions are simply so gross that, to grant them even a moment’s latitude of probability diminishes the civic intelligence of the recipient.” Vanguard FOLLOWING the election of Prof Adebanji Akintoye as the new Yoruba leader in Ibadan, indications emerged, weekend, that former President Olusegun Obasanjo; Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, and Chief Afe Babalola may have intervened in the leadership crisis. August 26, 2019 In "News" THE  Yoruba Consultative Forum, YCF, has condemned what it called a campaign of undisguised calumny by the Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka against former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. August 7, 2018 In "News" THOSE of us who were already adults when, in 1986, Professor Akinwande Oluwole Soyinka won his Nobel Prize in Literature, knew very well that he won the laurel, not so much because of his literary prowess but for what he did as a political activist. So extreme was Soyinka’s radicalism… December 9, 2014 In "Viewpoint"