Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has prohibited all protest relating to #EndSARS in the state. He also warned parents to ensure that their children do not violate the law. A statement from the state government explained that since the Inspector-General of Police had made a pronouncement on the special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, the Governor sees no reason why protesters should feel agitated. The statement reads: “The Rivers State Government hereby wish to inform the general public that all forms of protests have been banned throughout the State. “Therefore, all proposed protests under #EndSARS Campaign are hereby prohibited. “Government took this decision because the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, had already scrapped the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. “Therefore, there is no need for any form of protest against a Unit of the Police Force that no longer exists. “Parents and Guardians are therefore advised to ensure that their children or wards do not violate this order. “Law enforcement agencies are also directed to ensure that the ban is enforced and that violators are brought to book.” The EndSARS protest has gained audience from within and outside Nigeria. Vanguard RIVERS State Government and All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday, bickered over killings and controversial audio recording purportedly of governor Nyesom Wike threatening staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, over the December 10 re-run elections. December 16, 2016 In "News" …We want justice —Victim’s family By Egufe Yafugborhi GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has, again, asked the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to urgently reform or dissolve the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, of the Nigeria Police, following another alleged extra judicial murder of Daniel Ikeaguchi, aka Sleek, by… September 23, 2020 In "News" * Shooters arrested -Police * We want justice - Victim's family By Egufe Yafugborhi GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike has again asked Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to urgently reform or dissolve the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of the Nigerian Police, following another alleged extrajudicial murder of Daniel Ikeaguchi, aka Sleek… September 22, 2020 In "News"