CHI Limited, Nigeria’s leading manufacturer of high-quality fruit juices, Drinking Yoghurt, Evaporated Milk, and Snacks brands, congratulates the Government and people of Nigeria on the occasion of the country’s 60th Independence Anniversary. The company commends Nigerians for their resilience, patriotism, industriousness and enterprise over the years despite daunting challenges. The country’s Diamond Anniversary affords us time to reflect on our journey in nationhood and reaffirm our commitment to promote democratic values, security, and prosperity for our country. With the spirit of togetherness and diversity, our patriotic zeal, abundant wealth, rich human capital, purpose-driven innovation, culture of excellence in various endeavours, Nigeria is a nation of potential and greatness. The company has been a partner in the country’s development in the last 40 years of its operations. It has played a major role in the growth of the food and beverage manufacturing sector in Nigeria. Through its commitment, the company has been at the forefront as a lead campaigner for quality, healthy and nourishing locally produced Fruit Juices, Drinking Yoghurt, Evaporated Milk, and Snacks brands, whilst driving local economic development and growth. Commenting on the occasion of Nigeria’s 60th Independence Anniversary, Managing Director of CHI Limited, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, stated that the nation’s Independence Anniversary offered Nigerians an opportunity to commemorate the sacrifices that were made to achieve freedom, to strengthen democratic ideals, and to reflect on the country’s challenges and opportunities. “As a company, we recognize this important day and reiterate our optimistic belief in Nigeria’s potentials and opportunities. The company will continue to leverage local resources to provide high quality and nourishing beverages and snacks for the Nigerian population while benefitting the communities in which we operate by creating jobs for the local population,” he said. CHI Limited currently provides direct employment to about 4,500 people and indirect employment to over 112,500 people through its robust value chain. VANGUARD By Johnbosco Agbakwuru Her Majesty, The Queen of England, has sent a message of felicitation to President Muhammadu Buhari on the occasion of Nigeria’s 60th Independence Anniversary, October 1, 2020. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina in a statement he issued in Abuja, Wednesday,… September 30, 2020 In "News" By Victoria Ojeme The National Centre for Women Development (NCWD) has called on “governments at all levels to introduce and sustain policies, laws and programmes that will better the lot of women” as Nigeria marks her 60th independence anniversary. The Director-General of NCWD, Mary Ekpere-Eta, in a statement today in… September 30, 2020 In "News" Ahead of Nigeria's 60th independence anniversary, the National Inter-Faith and Religious Organization for Peace (NIFROP) has commenced prayer and fasting for President Muhammadu Buhari and the entire country. At its meeting on Tuesday at the Unity Fountain, Abuja, the group described October 1st as a "day of convenant" which marked the… September 23, 2020 In "News"