Violent clash on Friday erupted between Hausa and Yoruba communities in Fagba, Iju-Ishaga, Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government Area of Lagos State with an unconfirmed number of persons killed in the process. Residents are in a panic. No presence of security personnel. According to an eyewitness, trouble started when a horde of hoodlums intercepted a truckload of cows from the northern part into Lagos in transit to Agege Lairage “The hoodlums have been attacking motorists and extorting on the road. “The truckload of cows, however, ran into the roadblock which the occupants, mainly Hausas resisted. The situation subsequently, degenerated into a bloody clash as various dangerous weapons were freely used, throwing the entire area into chaos as other Hausa origins were called in to rescue their colleagues. “Apparently, overwhelmed, the police kept away from the scene for fear of being attacked as well.” It was gathered that some houses have been set on fire during the bloody clash Residents in the area who are currently in fear have called on Rapid Response Squad, RRS,  and military personnel to come to their aid. According to Mr. Femi Olokun A resident, “We under attack in Fagba, Iju-Ishaga. Hoodlums and Hausa are clashing killing people and setting houses on fire. The incident started at about 8 am. “At least I saw two people been mauled down before I and my family members escaped into a safe location.” Also, Mrs. Esther Akinola, a resident, credit for the intervention of the state government and security personnel before the whole area will go up in the conflagration. “We are appealing to the state government to immediately deploy men of Rapid Response Squad, RRS, and Army to this area. People are killing themselves between Hausa and Yoruba, destroying properties unchecked. ” The state Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, a Superintendent of Police, who confirmed the incident, appealed to community leaders to also rise up and intervene for calm. According to him, “In view of the current situation in the state, the Police are under pressure and attacks as well. We are being cautious. “Already there is a curfew in town everybody should remain in their houses. Police are overstretched, it’s a collective struggle,” PPRO said. Vanguard Houses on fire Residents calls for police intervention By Olasunkanmi Akoni There is an ongoing ethnic clash between Hausa and Yoruba community in Fagba, Iju-Ishaga, Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government Area with several houses torched. Residents in panic. No presence of security personnel. A number of unconfirmed casualties. ALSO READ: Between Soro… October 23, 2020 In "News" Angered by the recent killing of five policemen in Lagos State by some armed robbers, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police Umar Manko,has declared an all-out war against criminals in all the nooks and crannies of the state. Manko is believed to have given special directives to the officer in… October 16, 2013 In "Crime Alert" Filed By David Royal As the coronavirus continues to spread, and the harsh economic effect of the Presidential lockdown order bites harder on Lagos residents, armed robbers and miscreants have started breaking into homes to rob innocent citizens of their valuables. Vanguard reports that the robbery, which was said to… April 13, 2020 In "News"