A group within the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in Lagos State, PDP Democrats, yesterday, lampooned former Ekiti State governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose, over the alleged removal of his cap at the grand finale of the PDP rally in Akure, Ondo State. In a statement by its chairman, Mr Tajudeen Abinuwaiye, the PDP group faulted Mr Fayose’s claim describing him as a confused dreamer. Fayose had alleged that some youths in Ondo state allegedly removed his cap at the grand finale of the PDP rally. The statement reads: “Mr Ayodele Fayose, the controversial former governor of Ekiti state is at it again. In an unguarded and unthoughtful outburst, he hurriedly jumped into conclusion, whipping up emotion about his encounter with some youths in Ondo state who allegedly removed his cap at the grand finale of the PDP rally. “Fayose openly apologized to all the people he had wronged right at the podium in his very brief remarks. It is rather shocking and outrageous for this same person to change swiftly and started pointing accusing fingers at his phantom enemies. “Fayose is been known to have been reckless and abusive towards elders. He had once maligned and openly abused former President Obasanjo, Chief Afe Babalola, Chief Bode George and even President Muhammadu Buhari. “Fayose has constantly displayed an attitude of a man pursued by some inner demon. He needs a definite purgation. His careless, indifferent outbursts should be discountenanced.”A group within the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in Lagos State, PDP Democrats, yesterday, lampooned former Ekiti State Governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose, over the alleged removal of his cap at the grand finale of the PDP rally in Akure, Ondo State. In a statement by its chairman, Mr Tajudeen Abinuwaiye, the PDP group faulted Mr Fayose’s claim describing him as a confused dreamer. Fayose had alleged that some youths in Ondo state allegedly removed his cap at the grand finale of the PDP rally. The statement reads: “Mr Ayodele Fayose, the controversial former governor of Ekiti state is at it again. In an unguarded and unthoughtful outburst, he hurriedly jumped into conclusion, whipping up emotion about his encounter with some youths in Ondo state who allegedly removed his cap at the grand finale of the PDP rally. “Fayose openly apologized to all the people he had wronged right at the podium in his very brief remarks. It is rather shocking and outrageous for this same person to change swiftly and started pointing accusing fingers at his phantom enemies. “Fayose is been known to have been reckless and abusive towards elders. He had once maligned and openly abused former President Obasanjo, Chief Afe Babalola, Chief Bode George and even President Muhammadu Buhari. “Fayose has constantly displayed an attitude of a man pursued by some inner demon. He needs a definite purgation. His careless, indifferent outbursts should be discountenanced.” Vanguard News He's only grandstanding, I've no link with the incident — Makinde Dayo Johnson - Akure Former governor of Ekiti State, Mr Ayodele Fayose has accused the Oyo State governor,  Engr Seyi  Makinde and former Deputy National Chairman of the People's Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Bode George of masterminding the assault… October 8, 2020 In "Politics" A Group within the Lagos PDP, Lagos Democrats, Wednesday,  called on former Governor of Ekiti State, Mr Ayodele Fayose to limit his rantings and confusionist agenda to Ekiti State. September 30, 2020 In "Politics" Ekiti State Governor-elect, Mr. Peter Ayodele Fayose, yesterday, said he won the election because of his past performance and catering for the welfare of the people. Fayose spoke to reporters on how he took Ekiti state from the incumbent governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. June 23, 2014 In "Ekiti Elections"