About one hundred thousand twitter users have unfollowed President Muhammadu Buhari on Twitter, hours after Pastor Reno Omokri, a former aide to Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, launched a campaign hashtag #UnfollowBuhari. This according to Omokri is to facilitate the nationwide call for the disbandment of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad, FSARS, accused of killing innocent Nigerian youths. Buhari who had about 3.5m followers and 26 following, now has 3.4M Followers and 26 following, reducing the number of followers with about 100,000. Nigerians had begun campaigning for the termination of the activities and operations of SARS, who undoubtedly have dehumanized many youths in several occasions. Raising their voices like a wide spread banner, Nigerians both young and old, big and small, elites, took to streets, protesting with the hastag, ENDSARS now, EndPoliceBrutality, and WedontneedSARS, calling on the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu and Buhari to end the operations of SARS. Dear Nigerians, VP @ProfOsinbajo personally checks his Twitter TL. If we mean business with #EndSARS, let’s shock him and General @MBuhari. If we all stop following him and he sees his Twitter following drop by 1 million, he will act. Let’s go!#UnfollowBuhari #UnfollowOsinbajo pic.twitter.com/v1cF1ns6g0 — Reno Omokri (@renoomokri) October 10, 2020  Dear Nigerians, If we all mean business with this #EndSARS movement, let’s send a strong message to General @MBuhari. He has 3.5 million followers. If we all stop following him and he sees his Twitter following drop by 1 million, he will sit up. Who is with me? Let’s go there! pic.twitter.com/JokefEjspT — Reno Omokri (@renoomokri) October 10, 2020  Dear Nigerians, When I started the #UnfollowBuhari campaign as part of my #EndSARS protest, some laughed. Well, look. In just 1 hour, we have reduced Buhari’s following by 100,000. Never underestimate your influence. When Nigerians wake up, government will be afraid of us! pic.twitter.com/5buU0wX2xL — Reno Omokri (@renoomokri) October 10, 2020  @renoomokri I just love your creative ways of tackling issues.. Calling all Bulgari followers to start unfollowing. It’s for our good#EndSarsNow #EndSARS https://t.co/E9zRpk41Ma — Ify  (@billcaston) October 10, 2020  #EndSarsNow  https://t.co/U8nfQX51d0 —  #womanofsteel  (@yemialadee) October 10, 2020  Dear Nigerians, If we all mean business with this #EndSARS movement, let’s send a strong message to General @MBuhari. He has 3.5 million followers. If we all stop following him and he sees his Twitter following drop by 1 million, he will sit up. Who is with me? Let’s go there! pic.twitter.com/JokefEjspT — Reno Omokri (@renoomokri) October 10, 2020  Vanguard Trending on social media is the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Yomi Shogunle, who is under fire for his twitter comment which Nigerian users of the micro-blogging site, twitter, have said undermines the #EndSARS campaign. July 27, 2018 In "News" By Benjamin Njoku Nigerians celebrities have been reacting differently following the viral reports on the recent activities of the Federal Sars (FSARS) which includes extortion, brutality and killing of innocent Nigerian youths. Peter Okoye of the defunct PSquare musical group, in an Instagram post on Sunday, decried the activities of… October 5, 2020 In "Entertainment" Number one bestselling author and former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omokri, has reacted to the recent letter sent to President Muhammadu Buhari by the former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. January 24, 2018 In "News"