Perhaps, none who passed-on had given better instructions about how his or her remains will be handled than Prof. J. P Clark. His poem, “My Last Testament” speaks for itself, needing little or no analysis. It is an instruction to his family – don’t take my body to the mortuary, or to the church, he said. Take me to my roots. Don’t keep my body for more than three days. Do not shed blood for me, and don’t quarrel over whatever material things I have left behind for you. These are clear instructions, issued by a clear-minded poet. And from all indications, the family did the bidding of the iconic and enigmatic poet – as we write this, it is likely  Prof. J. P Clark’s remains are being laid to rest across the Kiagbodo River, precisely three days after he breathed last. Here is the poem, My Last Testament: My Last Testament By J. P CLARK This is to my family Do not take me to a mortuary, Do not take me to a church, Whether I die in or out of town, But take me home to my own, and To lines and tunes, tested on the waves Of time, let me lie in my place On the Kiagbodo River.  If Moslems do it in a day, You certainly can do it in three, Avoiding blood and waste, And whatever you do after, My three daughters and my son By the only wife I have, Do not fight over anything I may be pleased to leave behind (From Full Tide, (collected poems), page 385). Vanguard …As captured in his “State of the Union” By Osa Amadi & Chukwuma Ajakah Africa’s foremost poet, Professor Emeritus John Pepper Clark-Bekederemo captures pertinent contemporary socio-political issues in his 1985 collection of poems titled, “State of the Union”. The collection appears as a segment of select poems in J.P. Clark’s… October 15, 2020 In "News" By Osa Amadi & Prisca Sam-Duru On March 21, 2013 when Prof. Chinua Achebe passed on, J.P Clark and Wole Soyinka wrote: “Of the “pioneer quartet” of contemporary Nigerian literature, two voices have been silenced – one, of the poet Christopher Okigbo, and now, the novelist Chinua Achebe. A quartet… October 14, 2020 In "News" IN a rather sophisticated ceremony that attracted dons, public intellectuals and other eminent Nigerians, the winner of the 2013 Nigeria Prize for Literature, sponsored by the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas Limited, (NLNG), Tade Ipadeola was presented to the public, last Friday, at the Nigeria Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Lagos. March 13, 2014 In "The Arts"