The UEFA Champions League returns for the 2020/2021 football season, after the group stage draw and award ceremony held in Geneva, Switzerland on Thursday. Matchday 1 of the UEFA Champions League kicks off on the 20th of October and rounds up with the finals on the 29th of May. Hosted at the Ataturk Stadium in Turkey, site of Liverpool’s famous 2005 come back victory over AC Milan. The draw sees holders Bayern Munich squaring off against Atletico in Group A, with runners-up PSG facing a trip to Old Trafford in group H. Turin giants Juventus battle Barcelona for supremacy in Group G, with supreme rivals Messi and Cristiano facing off. Liverpool and Ajax in Group D meet for the first time since 1966 where the reds suffered a 5-1 defeat to the Dutch giants. Group A: Bayern, Atlético Madrid, Salzburg, Lokomotiv Moskva
Group B: Real Madrid, Shakhtar Donetsk, Internazionale, Mönchengladbach
Group C: Porto, Manchester City, Olympiacos, Marseille
Group D: Liverpool, Ajax, Atalanta, Midtjylland
Group E: Sevilla, Chelsea, Krasnodar, Rennes
Group F: Zenit, Dortmund, Lazio, Club Brugge
Group G: Juventus, Barcelona, Dynamo Kyiv, Ferencváros
Group H: Paris SG, Manchester United, Leipzig, İstanbul Başakşehir Vanguard Last season's beaten finalists Atletico Madrid host Serie A leaders Juventus in a high octane Group A battle in the Spanish capital while Arsenal need a win at home to Galatasaray to kickstart their season. October 1, 2014 In "Sports" The UEFA Champions League is back for matchday 3. Europe's premier club competition resumes after a 19-day break, with early kickoffs in Ukraine and Spain. It promises to be an exciting night of football, as Europe's best battle each other for pride and points.   Match 1, 17:55: Shakhtar Donetsk… October 22, 2019 In "Sports" Champions Barcelona begin their bid to become the first side since AC Milan in 1990 to retain Europe's premier club trophy away to Roma while faltering Chelsea host Israelis Maccabi Tel Aviv on the second day of the opening round of Champions League matches. Here is the rule over the… September 15, 2015 In "News"