A book, ‘Varsity Guard’, which aims to help students in tertiary institutions to excel in their chosen career and also not fall victims of some costly errors that can truncate their studies, has hit the market. The book, written by Mr Shadrack Akinola, was launched at a ceremony done virtually in Lagos recently. Speaking on what prompted him to write the book, Akinola said his personal experience while in the university motivated him to do so. He recalled that despite putting a lot to his studies while in the university, he still had an extra year because of some mistakes he made. “The book is an experiential guide and a product of over seven years of continuous research just to make the book as rich and as well applicable in modern day times as possible. “Some of the benefits of the book are; sensitizing students about choosing a career, the ripple effects they never consider which happen after school, imploring a 360 degrees approach to living well and productively on campus, effects of drug abuse to mention a few,” he said. Akinola also noted that the need for quality orientation of youths could not be over-emphasized given the many negative things competing for their attention. Present at the launch were: Mrs Olaide Akinola, Samuel Ajibola, Mr Modest Diko, Mrs Bukki Ogunnusi, Mrs Adebola Bakare, Rev Mobolade Omonijo, Rev Bode Daramola, Grp Cpt Oyinloye (Rtd) and Mrs Oyinloye to mention a few. They commended Akinola for his efforts and recommended the book for students and parents. As part of efforts to reinforce the importance of education, 1Goal initiative was launched to help rally support for the education of about 75 million students who are out of school. The initiative basically, has three objectives. August 19, 2010 In "Education" ...As parents, students differ on prolonged strike... As the industrial action of Academic Staff Union of Universities ASUU, entered its second month, former executive secretary, National Universities Commission NUC, Professor Peter Okebukola has stated that the NEEDS report justifies the demands of ASUU. August 1, 2013 In "Education" Worried by the dearth of textbooks in the country’s tertiary institutions, the Professor Green Nwankwo Foundation has donated 8,000 books to 200 institutions and state libraries across the nation. September 20, 2012 In "Education"