In line with directives of the Inspector-General of Police on measures to curb the excesses of policemen attached to the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad, (FSARS), and other tactical units, the Commissioner of Police, Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad, FSARS, Imohimi Edgal, embarked on measures towards implementing the police boss’s directives. According to him, henceforth, no personnel of the Federal Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS), would be issued firearms except for guard duties, at the base, and to respond to violent crimes as they occur. He stated that all FSARS teams on routine patrol have been withdrawn in compliance with the IGP’s directive. According to him, in order to improve on the efficiency and effectiveness of FSARS and ensure they uphold the fundamental human rights of the citizens, the unit has drawn up a training/capacity workshop which will kick off this week in Abuja in collaboration with civilian partners and Non-Governmental Organisations, (NGO’s) aimed at emphasising the tenets of rule of law and fundamental rights of Nigerians. He further said no FSARS personnel will henceforth attend to any violent crimes except he was kitted in his approved jacket to guide members of the public. In his word, only FSARS operatives have the right to wear a jacket with the inscription ‘FSARS’, saying all other states Special Anti Robbery Squads, (SAR), which are commanded by state commissioners of police are to wear the inscription SARS without F.” Edgal, therefore, called on state Commissioners and Commanders of tactical units to join hands to ensure the total success of all the directives and reforms regarding FSARS and SARS operations by the Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu. He reassured the public that the era of ‘slap on the wrist or cover-ups’ of any policeman caught involving himself in any matter that will tarnish the image of the force was over, Security and Safety matters reported. “Henceforth, maximum disciplinary penalty awaits such policemen, he stated. Vanguard  THE Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, has overhauled the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, following public outcry over alleged human rights violations by operatives of the police anti-crime unit. August 14, 2018 In "News" The Vice  President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday directed the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, to commence investigations into allegations of abuses by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria police, otherwise known as SARS. August 15, 2018 In "Headlines" The Foundation for Justice and Rehabilitation of Prisoners, a human rights group, has commended the presidential directive for the overhauling of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, (SARS) of the Nigeria Police. August 17, 2018 In "News"