A former presidential aspirant under the All Progressives Congress, APC, Adamu Garba, Thursday threatened to sue Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey for supporting the #EndSARS protest. Adamu in a Tweet said if the protest continues to evolve into disorder explained that Jack’s tweet calling for support against disbanded SARS was a needless interference and that endorsing a link for donation to the movement was capable of pushing the situation beyond Nigeria’s overstretched security management. Jack Dorsey, Wednesday night took to his Twitter handle to solicit support for Nigerian protesters seeking an end to Police brutality and calling for reforms. While retweeting a tweet from the Feminist Coalition informing people of the modes by which contributions can be made, Jack tweeted, “Donate via Bitcoin to help #EndSARS,” Donate via #Bitcoin to help #EndSARS  https://t.co/kf305SFXze — jack (@jack) October 14, 2020  Reacting to this, Adamu Garba tweeted “Dear @jack, It’ll do you a lot more good if you stay away from Nigerian Politics. You should know that the so-called #EndSARS protest have transformed into political agitation, capable of breaking law & order in our country. You should not be a moral & financial sponsor to this. “I can see you are even sharing a link for people to donate money for this protest, an event capable of escalation beyond our already overstretched security management. If this protest continued to evolved into disorder (hopefully not). As a Nigerian citizen, we’ll meet in court:” Dear @jack, It’ll do you a lot more good if you stay away from Nigerian Politics. You should know that the so-called #EndSARS protest have transformed into political agitation, capable of breaking law & order in our country. You should not be a moral & financial sponsor to this. https://t.co/slhwmOnCMY — Adamu Garba II (@adamugarba) October 14, 2020  Vanguard News Nigeria By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja A Global UK based non-profit, AdamStart, on Tuesday, launched an emergency fund with $10, 000 to support young people in Nigeria following demand for the proscription of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). This was disclosed by CEO AdamStart, Adams Bradford, in a statement made… October 14, 2020 In "SARS Update" In a swift reaction to the prohibition of the proposed #ENDSARS protest in Rivers State, Nigerians have taken to twitter, with most opposed to the decision of the state government. An #ENDSARS protest was initially scheduled for Tuesday, by youths in Rivers state to join in the ongoing nationwide protests… October 13, 2020 In "News" …Armed thugs attack protesters in Abuja, Lagos …Sanwo-Olu appeals, says govts currently addressing demands …#EndSARS protest, reflection of leadership failure - Okowa …Motorists, commuters stranded, lament as protests trigger traffic gridlocks …#NotoSWAT protests rock Warri …Awkuzu SARS under lock as protesters paralyze Awka …Police have killed 10 #EndSARS protesters –… October 15, 2020 In "News"