Against the backdrop of continued EndSARS protests across the country, the Nigerian Army has said it is ready to fully support the civil authority in whatever capacity to maintain law and order. Army Headquarters also stated that troops are ready to deal with any untoward situation decisively. The Army directed all it’s officers and soldiers, never to be distracted by those it called ‘anti-democratic forces and agents of disunity’. This declaration was contained in a statement signed late last night by Col Sagir Musa, Acting Director, Army Public Relations, titled ‘Nigerian Army Remains Resolute to the Peace and Stability of the Nation’. It reads, “The Nigerian Army (NA) wishes to reassure law-abiding citizens that it is highly committed to the sustenance of peace, security and defence of democracy in Nigeria. “As a responsible and law-abiding organisation, the Nigerian Army reaffirms its unalloyed loyalty and commitment to the President, Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari and the Constitution of the Country. “The NA hereby warns all subversive elements and trouble makers to desist from such acts as it remains highly committed to defend the country and her democracy at all cost. “The NA is ready to fully support the civil authority in whatever capacity to maintain law and order and deal with any situation decisively. “All officers and men are directed never to be distracted by anti-democratic forces and agents of disunity.” Vanguard News Nigeria Hundreds of youths in Awka, Anambra State capital, on Saturday joined the #ENDSARS protest that has rocked the country. October 10, 2020 In "News" President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, said Nigerians acted within their rights to protest the killings and brutality against citizens by men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) across the country. Lawan made the statement at Tuesday’s plenary in his concluding remarks on a matter of personal explanation into the… October 14, 2020 In "News" By Ikechukwu Nnochiri Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, yesterday, demanded the unconditional release of all peaceful protesters across the federation, even as it called for expedited audit of various detention centres of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS. NBA, in a statement by its President, Olumide Akpata, said it had, in… October 14, 2020 In "SARS Update"