No fewer than one person was feared dead following the attack and looting of Edo pharmaceutical company warehouse in Benin City  by suspected  hoodlums. The hoodlums were said to cart away which goods such as cartoons of pastry, LPG gas cylinders, bags of rice, gallons of vegetables oil, vehicle batteries among other valuablesworth millions of  Naira despite the state government’s curfew aimed  at checking  activities of miscreants as a result of the EndSARS protest. Other household goods including Covid-19 palliatives branded with the inscription ‘CACOVID  were also carted away. Vanguard gathered that one the victims died of exhaustion while struggling in the midst of the hoodlums to gain entry into the warehouse and was trampled upon  in the process. It was further Learnt that the Warehouse situated on Medical Stores road was stormed by angry youths in the locality as earlier as 6. 00 a. m. However,  Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie  while reacting  said. ”Government has said that the government warehouse breached in Medical Stores Road, Benin City, storing palliatives materials and medical supplies, served as a strategic reserve to mitigate eventualities in the state. “Upon receipt of relief materials, there has been an ongoing process of distribution for the past seven months to the vulnerable and poor population to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 crisis in the state. “The vandalised warehouse stored some strategic medical assets, looted such as vaccines, high-end equipment and other supplies. “The government has distributed most of the palliative materials sent to the state and what was stored at the warehouse, which has now been breached in Medical Stores Road, was strategic to mitigate eventualities. “It is unfortunate that critical medical supplies, including vaccines meant for children, were vandalised, which is most condemnable”. Some of the irate youths in the  area who spoke to  journalists, accused the state government of hoarding food items and other Covid-19 palliatives meant for the people adding that most of the items looted were already in bad shape having either expired or bad for consumption particularly the bags of rice. Security agencies on ground watched helplessly without any form of confrontation as the hoodlums in their numbers broke into the warehouse . The looting of the state government Warehouse popularly known as “Medical Stores”, is coming days after hoodlums attacked and looted the Nigeria Custom Benin warehouse and burnt other facilities including the NDLEA and Nigeria Correctional facilities in the state, with thousands of inmates now at large. Effort to get the State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor to comment was unsuccessful. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Evelyn Usman The EndSARS protest has led to a seeming anarchy especially in the southern parts of Nigeria, unfortunately, the same areas that suffered most the police brutality that has brought shame to Nigeria. The protest was sparked up by  a video  that went viral on social media last… October 24, 2020 In "SARS Update" Following report that COVID-19 Palliatives were hoarded by the Cross River State governnent ,the Commisioner for Humanity &Social Welfare,Mrs Blessing Egbara has disclosed that the distribution was done in Sequence as it was not a one off exercise October 23, 2020 In "News" By Ike Uchechukwu - Calabar Following report that COVID-19 Palliatives were hoarded by the Cross River State governnent, the Commisioner for Humanity & Social Welfare, Mrs Blessing Egbara, has disclosed that the distribution was done in sequence as it was not a one off exercise   Recall that hoodlums and… October 24, 2020 In "News"