The Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, Saturday, ordered the immediate mobilization of all police operational assets and resources to bring an end to the wanton violence, killings, looting and destruction of public and private property and reclaim the public space from criminal elements masquerading as protesters in some parts of the country. According to the Police spokesman, Frank Mba, the IGP gave the order to all Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs), Commissioners of Police (CPs), Heads of Police Operational Units, Squadron and Base Commanders in charge of Zonal/State/FCT Commands, the Police Mobile Force, Counter Terrorism Unit and the Special Protection Unit, on Saturday, October 24. In addition, CPs/Heads of Police Formations in the various states have also been charged to mobilize their men and work in sync with the Command CPs in the areas where they are domiciled, to dominate the public space and ensure peace and safety in the affected areas. The IGP, while noting that enough is enough to all acts of lawlessness, disruption of public peace and order and wanton violence which have resulted to indiscriminate looting of shops, malls and ware houses, damage to property and loss of lives in some parts of the country, further directed the Police strategic managers to personally lead and coordinate the operation and use all legitimate means, to halt further slide into lawlessness and brigandage. The IGP enjoined law-abiding citizens not to panic but rather join forces with the police and other members of the law enforcement community to protect their communities from the criminal elements. He further called for the understanding and cooperation of the citizens assuring that the action was geared towards ensuring public order and safety and public security in our communities. The IGP however warned trouble-makers not to test the collective will of the nation by coming out to cause any further breakdown of law and order. Vanguard THE Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, has said a total of 1,151 high profile suspects had been arrest across the country between September and October, this year. October 3, 2019 In "News" The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr Mohammed Adamu, on Monday, unveiled new operational guidelines for Police and other law enforcement agencies on COVID-19 prevention enforcement duties. June 8, 2020 In "News" CP X Squad, Force Provost Marshal, IGP Monitoring Team deployed to enforce order By Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja Against the backdrop of skepticism over the order last Sunday of the ban of SARS carrying out routine Police duties, the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu has further cemented his directives by… October 7, 2020 In "News"