THE Edo state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the decision of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in the September 19 governorship election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu not to challenge the outcome of the election as a result of his bitterness for losing the contest. A statement by the State Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Chris Nehikhare Monday said the allegation by Ize-Iyamu that there were reports of violence during the exercise was false. He said: “The defeated APC candidate stated that the election, which has been adjudged as one of the best in the history of the country, was characterized by violence, manipulation, disenfranchisement amongst others, but will not challenge it. We reject and condemn his jaundiced position on the election and which to advice him to show respect to the wishes of Edo people. He should respect their views and decisions as Edo have been very kind to him! “Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu should know that he cannot retrieve what he lost at the polls at the court. “The PDP, Governor Godwin Obaseki and the Edo people are waiting for him. “The reality is that Edo has been reset and all hands are needed to sustain the gains of the last four years and move the state to greater heights.” Vanguard News Nigeria By Gabriel Enogholase Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has said that the decision of the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in the gubernatorial election in the State, Pastor Osagie Ize - Iyamu to focus on pre-election issues already before the courts instead of… October 5, 2020 In "Politics" The attention of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu Campaign Organization has been drawn to a publication in Sunday Vanguard of August 7, 2016 by one Christian Oronsaye purporting to make a choice of excellence on who to vote in the forth-coming Edo State governorship election. Ordinarily, we would not have responded to… August 14, 2016 In "Politics" By Dirisu Yakubu - Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP,  has told the All Progressives Congress, APC, candidate in the September 19 Edo state governorship election, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, that the people of the state have settled for the PDP candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki, "following his record of personal character and… July 3, 2020 In "Politics"