Coalition for Civil Societies in Osun State has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to address the rising unemployment in the country to avert imminent national outburst. It also called on the Federal Government to deploy military to areas witnessing insurgency attacks rather than deploying them to quell peaceful #ENDSARD protesters across the country. Addressing newsmen, yesterday, in Osogbo, one of the conveners, Olawole Oladapo said if the president failed to deal with rising hunger, poverty, dilapidated infrastructure and other social issues sincerely, it could trigger revolution in the country. The group, said that the inability of government at various levels to meet daily yearnings of Nigerians led to the present mass anger, but called on youths across the country to seize the protests back from anarchists and hoodlums. “We call on President Buhari to expedite action toward addressing the demands of the #EndSARS protesters and do so with sincerity and expression that will reflect trust. Hunger, unemployment, poverty, dilapidated infrastructure and other negative indices of human development index must be urgently addressed to avert impending national outburst. “We condemn the planned deployment of military personnel to quell peaceful protests. We advise that the military officers should not be deployed to combat civil protests but be sent to areas of insurgency to reclaim Nigeria’s territories under control of Boko Haram,” he said. Also, Commandant of the Hunters Guild of Nigeria, Nurein Hammed, who addressed protesters at Olaiya, disclosed that the group was motivated to join the protest to curb hoodlums from hijacking the process and would provide African magic security to back the protests. He said hoodlums had taken advantage of the protest to loot shop and businesses in the state capital, hence, their decision to provide adequate security for protesters and residents of the state. Vanguard By Chimaobi Nwaiwu, Nnewi The Indigenous People Of Biafra, IPOB, and the Yoruba One Voice, YOV, yesterday, alleged that the Nigerian Federal Government has concluded plans to deploy the armed forces under the guise of "Operation Crocodile Smile" with the sole aim to quell the popular #ENDSARS protests across the… October 19, 2020 In "News" Says swift action needed before situation slips into anarchy By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja An international Civil Society Organisation, CSO, ActionAid Nigeria, AAN, Tuesday, called on President Muhammadu Buhari, to address the nation in order to give clear-cut responses to the demands of EndSARS and EndSWAT protesters. This was contained… October 20, 2020 In "News" ...Ask, FG to stop Army's planned Operation Crocodile Smile …Kill protesters, face International Criminal Court, ASCAB cautions Buratai …Says it’s ill-timed, could exacerbate citizens’ distrust, lack of confidence in state institutions …‘Crocodile Smile’ not going after #EndSARS protesters, says Army …Defence Minister warns protesters against undermining national security …Thugs attacked… October 19, 2020 In "SARS Update"