Senator representing Plateau North Senatorial zone in the National Assembly, Istifanus Gyang has lashed out on those criticizing and calling him names for speaking out against the continued killings in his constituency saying such people want to distort facts in the name of keeping the peace. It would be recalled that Senator Gyang had last week while raising a point of order on the incessant killings of traditional rulers in the different parts of the State blamed herdsmen on what he termed as “serious and targeted assassinations,” stating that so far, 10 traditional rulers, some of them from his zone had been killed. But a group, Coalition of Plateau Peace Practitioners Forum through Dachomo Pam berated Gyang for making such utterance saying such is capable of breeding crisis and called on the people to ignore such a statement. Responding to the group, the Senator through Musa Ashoms, his Special Assistant on Media and Protocol said the group has failed in its attempt to label him as being tribalistic. He noted that “peace making does not mean to deny facts nor overlook the reality of prolonged attacks on communities in Plateau North neither does advocating peace means concealing the identity of attackers and killers. Nor does it mean applauding government and security agencies in the face of failure to arrest increasing and rising wave of terrorism, insurgency, banditry and killings across the nation.” He asked, “Is anyone in doubt about who is getting killed and who the killers are on the Plateau or anywhere else in the Northern states? Whether in Zamfara, Katsina, Sokoto, Niger or Kaduna, is it still a subject of debate?” He added that “Anyone attempting to twist or mischievously misrepresent his remarks for political patronage or mileage is on a futile goose chase.” Vanguard By Henry Umoru, Abuja President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan has asked security agencies in Plateau State and by extension, the country to provide security for all citizens, especially the traditional rulers to ensure their protection. Speaking yesterday in Abuja following a point of order raised by Senator Istifanus… September 30, 2020 In "News" *Charges security agencies to fish out culprits, prosecute them By Joseph Erunke A coalition of indigenous peacebuilding organisations in Plateau State has berated the senator representing Plateau North, Instifanus Gyang for allegedly making an unguarded public comment which it noted, was capable of igniting a new wave of crisis in… October 3, 2020 In "News" The protracted crisis in Plateau State which has spanned over a decade and which so far has defied every measure taken, reached a head, on Sunday, as the nation lost a serving senator in the person of Dr. Gyang Dantong and the Majority Leader of the Plateau State House of… July 15, 2012 In "Politics"